[Music]
It's been messy for the cyclical side of
the market.
>> You don't want to have a scenario where
tech and tech capex slows down.
>> The market's back where it was or
heading at least in the direction of
where it was last year.
>> You can take a look at where risk is
priced right now. And I think reasonably
conclude it's a relatively rich.
>> The market figured out and kind of
agreed with me that the economy was
resilient and we're not going to have a
a recession. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, this hour, the president
pushing for a meeting between Putin and
Zilinski. Home Depot kicking off a week
full of earnings from retailers in
America. And global bond yields inching
higher heading into the Fed's annual get
together in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. So,
is this the quiet before the storm or
just the quiet because it's August and a
lot of people want to go on vacation.
And I think about that at a time where
you have the potential risk events of
retail sales coming in and hinting some
concern about a consumer or Jackson Hole
maybe not necessarily seeming as dovish
as being risks to the downside. Is the
pain trade still higher? And that's
really what I want to understand at a
time where we're still hovering near
all-time highs.
>> We're going to turn to Home Depot
numbers in just a moment, but let's just
sit on the bond market just for a beat.
Long end of the curve. 30-year bond
yields, multi-deade highs in the UK, in
Japan, close to those levels, the US 30
bond year, inching back towards 5%. Is
this becoming a problem for central
bankers yet?
>> It's definitely becoming a problem at a
time where you pinge a lot of those
longerterm yields to uh borrowing costs
like mortgages, etc. But it also
highlights the international uh feature
of this bond market at a time where
inflation still is substantially higher
than where it was in the past. Look,
this is the crux of what we're going to
be looking for at Jackson Hole. They're
going to reassess their framework.
They're going to talk about how they
balance their dual mandate of both
employment as well as inflation. And
they're doing it at a time where
inflation has been marketkedly higher.
This is a new paradigm than where they
were say five, six years ago when they
first were coming out with this. And all
of a sudden, they have to consider this
is a global inflationary push with the
buildout of infrastructure, with all of
the tariffs and the post-pandemic
realities of supply chains.
>> Are they seeing any demand side
destruction? And here's the headline on
Home Depot just crossing the screen.
Soft demand for big ticket items. Are we
going to see some more of that in the
future?
>> Well, this to me is the key question.
Their comparable sales missing estimates
as they come out with EPS basically in
line. How much is this going to be the
status quo going forward? How much is
this specific the big ticket items that
Home Depot sells like the aluminum and
steel fil items that you have in your
home? How much is this tied to the
housing cycle which has been in a world
of hurt and kind of on its own planet
and how much is this really the question
of who is going to bear the brunt of the
costs. Is it going to be the consumer or
is it going to be the companies? So far
it has been the companies. A lot of
people saying that's not for long.
>> Home Depot and the pre-market little
change just about positive by about a
tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour we'll
catch up with Brian Levit of Invesco as
stocks go two days without gains. will
speak to the retired Lieutenant General
Robert Walsh of Academy Securities
following Zilinsk's visit to the White
House and John Lavalo of UBS on the
state of the US housing market. We begin
this hour with stock steady as retail
earnings ramp up. Brian Le of Invesco
writing the rising prices of tariff
impacted goods in our view should be
seen as a one-time price shock rather
than the onset of a prolonged
inflationary trend. Brian joins us now
for more. Brian, good morning.
>> Good morning. Nice to
>> get into it. What gives you that
confidence? Well, we saw it in 2018.
Obviously, the the tariffs were not as
broad back then, but you saw a one-time
price jump in tariff impacted goods
while all other core goods services
didn't do much of anything. So, that
would be one. The second is if you're
looking at the inflation expectations in
the bond market, three years out, 5
years out on the break evens, very
stable. So, the the bond market is not
overly concerned about it. I would still
categorize it more as a a price shock
and it's uh it's something that's going
to weigh on demand in other places which
really should prevent a broadbased
inflation spiral from taking hold. This
is the commentary that's coming from
Home Depot this morning that our
customers are telling us they're putting
projects on hold. They're not canceling
them. We've had this conversation over
the last several months with regards to
banks and activity. Are we seeing
activity delayed or derailed because of
the policy initiatives of the last
several months?
>> Well, it sounds like we're seeing it
delayed, but the reality is we were
always going to have a bit of a slowdown
here. And um you know whether that's a
slowing job market, whether that is less
stimulus coming into the system, the
reality was the consumer was going to
slow. What's interesting this time as
the housing market and housing
investment have been weaker, we know
that investment in artificial
intelligence and the infrastructure
around that has been stronger. So, it's
a bit of a different cycle than we're
used to. But the reality is if you look
at the sort of the canaries in the coal
mine for the cycle, the things that
would give you cause for concern,
whether it's like I already mentioned,
inflation expectations blowing out or
credit spreads blowing out or the
bankers tightening lending standards,
none of that is evidence. So it doesn't
feel like the end of a cycle. It's a
slowdown um given what's been a mixed
policy response reaction this year.
>> So that's the uh sort of slowdown on the
demand side. There's a real question
about how inflationary this is going to
be. Also digging into this, Home Depot
talking about how they've been able to
hold prices where they are because they
brought in most of their inventory ahead
of this. This is the classic story. One
of their competitors said the same
thing, but that this will change that
prices will have to go up and this is
what people expect. Do you still expect
to see the brunt of the inflationary
impact to come that we haven't
necessarily seen it yet in the inflation
data?
>> Yeah, absolutely. And that's going to be
the challenge. We're going to be sitting
here each month on inflation day and the
numbers are going to be ticking higher.
The question is whether that is
sustained or whether a year from now
that moves back into the comfort zone.
Now price levels will be higher, but
will the rate of change continue? It's
like if I if my washing machine cost me
$100 last year and and now it's going to
be 110, right? That's a big inflation
move in the short term. Next year, is it
still going to be 110? Probably. So the
consumer slows down, but the rate of
change of inflation will jump and then
likely come back down towards the upper
end of the Fed's comfort zone. And
that's what I I keep saying every cycle
there's something new to watch, right?
In ' 08, we stared at interbank lending
rates. 2020, we looked at social
mobility indicators. This year I'm laser
focused on inflation expectations. three
year, 5year quite stable, which is
promising for uh how the Fed's going to
approach this and promising in my
opinion for the markets.
>> Is the pain trade still higher given
that there is potential downside risk,
but people are concerned about
inflation? People are concerned about
all of these sort of uh more tail risks
coming to the four that could temper
some of the enthusiasm. Well, you could
temper some enthusiasm, but the reality
is it doesn't feel like the end of the
business cycle or feel like the end of
the market cycle. So, it really depends
on how tactical you want to be. When we
look at leading indicators of the
economy, it suggests to us in most
places of the world that you're below
trend and really mixed but most sort of
deteriorating maybe maybe a little bit
of improvements in Europe. So, it's a
it's not in a a broad risk-taking
environment. It's still sort of that
focus on quality, focus on mega cap. Uh
the hope and the expectation is you will
get some easing in here and you will get
a reaceleration of activity, but we're a
little bit delayed on that because we're
still waiting to see what tariffs will
mean.
>> Is that re acceleration dependent on an
easing of Federal Reserve interest
rates? Yeah, I think it will be
dependent on it. Um,
>> is there a risk that's derailed by the
data we get in the next few weeks?
>> Oh, yeah, absolutely. And so the reality
on um on rates is I'm not as concerned
as I think a lot of people are, whether
it's September or what which month it
is. I'm I'm more concerned about the
ultimate direction of it. So, you know,
I'm not trying to time is there a 5 to
10% downturn coming because in most
years you're going to get one of those
even though we already had our 20. But
policy uncertainty will create that type
of volatility. What I'm looking for is
is does the cycle continue. Will we move
into a more easier environment over the
next year? And ultimately, that should
be a positive for risk assets.
>> They've got an easing bass and so long
as they've got a bass to weed, you've
got a bass to buy. Is that fair?
>> Yeah, that's fair. I don't want to fight
the central bank. Do you think they'll
have to fight the data in a month's to
come?
>> They will have to fight the data. I
mean, that's the challenge, right? You
have a price stability, full employment,
and we know the economy is slowing. We
know the job market is slowing. At the
same time, we know prices are going to
increase. That's why it's so critical to
determine is it a price shock or is it
longer term inflation. Again, the bond
market's telling us it believes it's a
price shock, right? If I have a
three-year inflation break even at 2 and
a.5% or under, to me that's price
stability. And that means the Federal
Reserve is going to work on
normalizing the yield curve, getting
rates back to um, you know, on the Fed
funds rate closer to two-year or, you
know, somewhere in the mid3s to create a
spread between that and the 10-year
Treasury rate. So later this week when
we hear from Fed chair Jay Powell, he's
going to reassess the framework and a
lot of people are saying it's sort of a
signaling tool to markets about how they
look at inflation, how they look at
their dual mandate. One speculation is
they will move to not just average
inflation targeting of 2% but possibly a
range right 2 to 3%. It might actually
codify what we all have experienced in
reality for the past 5 years.
>> Does that shift your view in terms of
the riskreward of stocks versus bonds?
In other words, that might be good for
stocks but not so great for bonds going
forward.
>> I do think it is good for stocks and you
know if you remember come I mean we all
remember 2010 through 2019 we could not
get inflation into the comfort zone and
coming into this year we had inflation
stable in the high twos. I was thrilled
with that. Right. That's a great nominal
growth backdrop. I don't think the Fed
has to bring it to 2%. That's stability
in my mind. So I've always categorized
it as a perceived range rather than we
have to get back to 2% as if there's
something magical about 2%. So yeah, I
do think that is good for the equity
markets. I don't believe that we're
going to see the bond the treasury
market sell off significantly in that
environment. I mean, you have a 10-year
rate that's been, you know, between 4
and a/4 and 4 1/2 now for some time. And
that's probably a pretty reasonable
expectation of what nominal growth or
potential nominal growth should be in
the United States
>> going forward. Let's say there is some
sort of agreement between, and I'm just
shifting gears here. When we talk about
the US versus the rest of the world,
let's say there is some sort of peace
reached between Ukraine and Russia and a
rebuilding of Ukraine. How much does
that actually endorse the idea of going
to Europe or going outside of the US? Or
is this still mainly a United States
story?
>> I don't think it's mainly a United
States story. I would think about it
more from the perspective are US rates
and the US growth differentials
narrowing with the rest of the world
rather than um necessarily a deal
between Ukraine and Russia. Um the
markets have not seemed to be overly
impacted by in fact I had looked
recently I think uh MSCI Poland has been
one of the best indices over the last
few years since Russia went into
Ukraine. I don't think most people would
have expected that. Not for nothing um
Msei Israel has been one of the best
performing markets over the last couple
years. So I don't tend to put too much
concern or too much optimism into the
geopolitical. What I do think the big
story is with Europe, as as other people
have mentioned, valuations are more
attractive. There's big investment going
on in Europe for the first time in a
while, and the rate differentials
between the United States and the rest
of the world may finally start to narrow
if the Federal Reserve eases here.
>> Really encouraging news, though. It
looks like a breakthrough in the last 24
hours. I've got no idea where this ends
up, but it's sort of what happens next.
Do trade relations with the Russians and
the Europeans normalize in any way,
shape, or form? Does that unlock some
cheaper energy for the Europeans who've
been starved of it over the last two,
three years? And that would certainly
help the European economy if that was
the case. But again, I've got no idea
what happens from here and whether the
Europeans even want to do that even with
a peace deal.
>> Yeah, you can see the oil prices, the
energy prices coming down in
anticipation of that and you've seen
that steadily as these discussions have
gone on and as you have Friedrich Mertz
of uh of Germany coming out and saying
this went a lot better than he expected.
There also is the question of the
rebuilding of Ukraine and all the
infrastructure funding that's come
around that and you can already see
people trying to prepare for funding. So
yes, there is a potential boom, but a
lot of people are saying how far off is
that given all of the details that need
to be worked out here.
>> Every time you come in, I just think
FOMO guy.
>> Same thing every time. I want to come in
and just say, are you still a FOMO guy?
But I don't want to become clicho guy.
Brian Le of Invesco still sounds like a
FOMO guy. Good to see you. Thank you,
buddy. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's your Hira Island Arland.
Hey you Hyra.
>> Hi John. We are seeing sales for Home
Depot coming in shy of expectations in
the latest quarter with consumers
staying away from big purchases.
Consumers are still facing higher
interest rates and inflation concerns.
The world's largest home improvement
retailer said comparable sales grew 1%
in the fiscal second quarter, less than
analysts had expected, but an
improvement from the prior quarter.
Shares are lower by 1.8% in the
pre-market. Meanwhile, President Trump
is pushing for a one-on-one summit
between Ukraine's President Zalinski and
Russia's President Putin to discuss
terms that could bring an end to the
war. Trump urged Putin to consider the
plans after European leaders joined
Zalinski at the White House yesterday.
The summit would be followed by a
trilateral gathering involving President
Trump. Meanwhile, we are seeing shares
of Intel rising 6% in the pre-market
after SoftBank agreed to buy $2 billion
of the chipmaker stock. The news coming
as the US government looks to take a
stake in the company. Sourc is telling
us here at Bloomberg, the Trump
administration could take a 10% stake in
Intel using funds from the chips. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> more on that story later this morning.
Yara, thanks for that. Up next on the
program, a breakthrough in Washington.
We had very good conversation with
President Trump.
>> I really want to thank you uh President
of the United States Dear Donald for the
fact that you, as I said before, broke
the deadlock. So far, nobody nobody's
been able to bring it to this point. So,
I thank you for that.
>> A conversation up next with the retired
Lieutenant General Robert Walsh of the
Academy Securities. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Coming up later on this morning. Don't
miss this one. And one of the big
descents of the last month or so on the
FOMC. Mickey Bowman, Federal Reserve
Governor, sitting down with Michael McKe
in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. 1000 a.m.
Eastern time together with Governor
Waller. Some of the biggest descent
we've seen on the board of governors
going back several decades.
>> Yeah. Going into Jackson Hole where
suddenly there needs to be a new
framework review. How much do we hear
from the Mickey Bowman's and the Chris
Wallers as we hear the political
intrigue, but also the pressure on the
Federal Reserve to take a stance on an
increasingly fraught debate on Wall
Street.
>> Looking forward to that conversation
later on this morning, just a few hours
away. At the moment, your price action
shaping up as follows. We're negative a
tenth of 1% on the S&P, down a similar
amount on the NASDAQ 100. Over in
Europe, a rally underway across the
continent. Under surveillance this
morning, a breakthrough in Washington.
>> We had very good conversation with
President Trump. It was really good and
we spoke about very sensitive points.
>> I really want to thank you uh President
of the United States, dear Donald, as I
said before, broke the deadlock.
>> Thank you, Mr. president for organizing
this uh this meeting and for your
commitment.
>> So something is changing, something has
changed thanks to you.
>> And so far, nobody nobody's been able to
bring it to this point. So I thank you
for that.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
European leaders praising President
Donald Trump during Ukraine talks at the
White House. The president now pushing
for a meeting between the Ukrainian
president Vladimir Zalinski and the
Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
Bloomberg's Ollie Krook joins us now for
more. So Ollie, the language used there.
Here's Alexander Stub, the Finnish
president. In the last two weeks, we've
made more progress than three and a half
years. Is that just flattery or is there
a real shift underway?
Listen, I think there is certainly a
dose of flattery there. I mean, if you
could count the number of thank yous
that were received around the table, um,
you know, you'd be really sort of
ranking them at a very, very high
number. And this something, of course,
that was learned, you know, in the hard
way in February of last year when
President Zilinsky was asked if he'd
ever, you know, thank the United States.
But I do think there has been a
significant shift now that is underway
and it has to do with the security
guarantees, these article 5 style
guarantees that the United States and
this has been confirmed now by Donald
Trump. We were just going off of sort of
Steve Witkoff into Monday. Trump is
saying that he's committed in some way
to this new security architecture. Now
there are still a lot of questions about
what this could actually compose. Would
the US really do a NATO style backing
for Ukraine if Russia were to reimpose
itself on Ukrainian sovereignty? Would
the United States get militarily
directly um involved? It's hard to
imagine such a scenario. It's hard to
imagine Russia accepting such a
scenario. And there's of course the
difficult questions about boots on the
ground for the Europeans. We've spoken
to a number of countries. Some countries
are more open to it. We've heard from
the likes of France and the UK when this
idea was first floated, but when I've
spoken to German officials throughout
the last few months, and Germany has
been the biggest financial supporter of
Ukraine within uh Europe, they have been
very, very resistant to signing on to
this. So, while the Europeans showed up
in Washington DC with a united front,
that is papering over some very
difficult discussions that need to still
happen at home about how to pay for
this, but also whether or not they're
going to put boots on the ground
potentially in order to have a
peacekeeping group. But I think that
really the takeaway here is that at the
US level, at the very top level in
Europe and the United States, this
architecture, this new security
guarantee architecture is now being
built.
>> Ollie Krook with the latest out of
Brussels. Ollie, thank you. Joining us
now to build on the conversation,
retired Lieutenant General Robert Walsh
of Academy Securities. Lieutenant
General, welcome back to the program,
sir. We've been tracking the diplomatic
effort in the United States in Alaska,
then down in Washington. Can you tell us
what the realities are of this conflict
on the ground?
>> Yeah, thank you, John. You know, the
this is war has been going on obviously
for a long time. And when we talk about
a stalemate, Russia's been making slow
progress on the ground. There's no
question about that. It's a much larger
country. It has a lot more military
power. Um, but it's been very slow
progress. And the real challenge for
Russia is the in today's war, modern
warfare, the defense is more to an
advantage than the offense. And Russia
is running into that against the Ukraine
belts of defense. And what we see
clearly here is they're getting closer
to the Ukrainian main defensive belts or
their fortified belts is that's the area
of the Daesque region that um Russia
really would like to get their hands on
for a number of reasons. It's part of
the industrialized area of uh Daesque.
It's got a lot of uh key minerals that
are in that area. But from a military
standpoint, and that's where Putin is
really focused from a military
standpoint, it has the key defensive
areas around four major cities. And
urban conflict is, as military members
know, is the toughest warfare to go
through. And that's where Russ Ukraine
has their forces entrenched in this
defensive belt.
>> Lieutenant General, how much of a win
then is it for Vladimir Putin to not
have a ceasefire as some of the details
of this potential trilateral uh meeting
take place?
Yeah, that's a great question, Lisa. Uh,
I think both the US and the Europeans
did want a ceasefire uh in the situation
is the Europeans and uh Ukraine
certainly in the US would like to end
the war more than uh Vladimir Putin
would like to end the war. So, a
ceasefire helps end the war, stop the
fighting right now and stop the killing
as Donald Trump has put out. Uh in the
case of Putin, he would like to just
continue. So these talks he continues to
kind of slowly drag out because he wants
these battlefield gains. The more gains
he gets on the battlefield, the more
leverage he has and the possibility of a
breakthrough that could happen and he
could even gain more uh gains and
threaten more of the heart or the
interior of uh Ukraine. As we hear more
about security guarantees, some sort of
agreement between the US and Europe to
uh guarantee some sort of support to
Ukraine, do you feel more encouraged or
less encouraged? Do you still kind of
feel like the jury's out?
>> No, I think very encouraged after what's
happened over the last few weeks.
There's no question that the meeting
yesterday at the White House was
historic. I don't think we've ever seen
that many national leaders along with
the the leader from the EU and the NATO
secretary. uh we haven't seen anything
like that at the White House that what
that really shows is the uh power the
unity the strength that NATO is bringing
and the uh the ability to kind of coales
power for collective security and that's
a key thing here that Vladimir Putin
throughout this conflict has tried to
break the NATO alliance tried to break
the US from NATO and if anything what
this showed around that table yesterday
is those leaders as Ali had said have
really kind of come around the table to
show Putin that there is a lot of
strength here and it's not only military
strength that's here. Uh we know Russia
has continued their wartime economy to
build their military but the economic
strength that you see from the group
that was around the table. It uh is much
larger uh that than Russia is and Putin
knows that.
>> Lieutenant General, just a final
question. You mentioned NATO, the
details of this security agreement. In
your opinion, why does it need to live
outside of NATO? Why is that so
important and what does that tell you
about really the nature and strength of
that overall agreement in the future?
>> Yeah, John, it's a great question. I
think the key thing is is if you look at
Putin's objective from the very
beginning is to rebuild the former
Soviet Union and break NATO. Uh that's
his goal. That's his objective. And a
red line for him from the very very
beginning was um Ukraine not joining
NATO. And from the beginning, President
Trump as he came into office uh laid
that down that he knew that would be a
red line and took that off the table and
the Europeans supported that. And so now
when you get to some type of security
measures, it is so important to have
security measures that when the fighting
stops um that there are security
guarantees and that is going to be the
devil in the details as we go forward.
and Putin will not want to have an
article five type uh security
arrangement. And what that means is that
we would uh be supporting Ukraine
through the European countries, those
that are in NATO with the same type of
support that they would get as if
Ukraine was in NATO. It was a very
interesting approach that Trump took and
pulled that out of his hat. and uh uh
Vladimir Putin listened to that and
initially said he would take a hard look
at that. So I think that is going to be
the key thing and Zalinsky is going to
push very very hard to get those type of
assurances from the large militaries of
>> the breakthrough we all wanted to see.
Sir Lieutenant General, we appreciate
your time.
>> Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Here's the price actions. two
straight days without gains on the S&P
500. A mild pullback on Friday, a very
snoozy summer Monday to kick off the
trading week and it continues into
Tuesday. We're down just a tenth of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 negative by
0.08%.
In the bond market, things are starting
to get very interesting. The difference
between twos and 30s, the steepest going
back to something like 2022. This
morning, you're seeing it again. and
yields down at the front end, up at the
long end, creeping back towards 5% on
30s, 491,
93. How many times we've seen this over
the past few weeks?
>> Well, this to me sets up the ultimate
conundrum for Jackson Hole. How much can
the Federal Reserve lean into the idea
of rate cuts while keeping yields in the
long end suppressed? Just keep
hearkening back to last year. They cut
100 basis points and they saw the long
end rise by 100 basis points when it
comes to yields. So, do they see the
same kind of dynamic this time around?
If there still is this kind of
inflationary pressure,
>> I say you're seeing it again, maybe not
this morning, but in the last 24 hours
and certainly worldwide as well. It's
the UK, it's Japan. We're talking about
multi-deade highs on bond yields at or
close to those levels. Likewise, in
Europe, multi-year highs in some of
those bond markets, too. And this is the
problem for the Federal Reserve and
other officials at the moment. It's not
just state side, it's worldwide.
>> Is it a supply side story? the question
of incurring more debt which we do see
around the world or is it a demand side
story at a time where you do have
inflation that is coming on the heels of
supply chain disruptions tariffs as well
as just a structural shift that we've
seen post pandemic and that ultimately
is going to be a key question.
>> We will keep track of that story for
you. We'll come back to it later. We'll
catch up with premeasure of JP Morgan in
the next hour. Let's get you some
movers. We're about 3 hours away from
the opening power with your morning
movers. Here's Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. About 30 minutes ago, we got
Home Depot earnings dropping. It was a
miss on their second quarter comparable
sales up 1%. The expectation was for
just under 1.4%. The CFO speaking with
Bloomberg saying that purchasers are
holding back on big ticket items. Yes,
there was an uptick in some of the
smaller ones, but that pain is apparent.
They also front ran a lot of the tariffs
and they said prices will start to go up
in the second half of the year, but they
are going to try to keep things
competitive. In other words, margin
pressure. Elsewhere, we also had quite
the 24 hours for Intel. For one,
Bloomberg reporting that the Trump
administration is weighing a 10% stake
in the company. And for two, SoftBank
announcing that they are buying a $2
billion stake in the company. All a vote
of confidence and getting that
turnaround happening at Intel, making it
a homegrown champion for chip
development. Shares are up 6%. Finally,
another earnings for you. After the bell
yesterday, we learned Pelo Alto's future
and it is a brighter thanex expected
2026. They are trying to push a lot of
their AI enabled cyber security products
and moreover just having a wide platform
for consumers. That strategy seems to be
working. So those shares up 6 and a
half%. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. On our way down this morning,
our top story, President Donald Trump
urging Russia's Vladimir Putin to make
plans to meet with Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zalinski. Trump proposing a
trilateral meeting involving all three
leaders as a follow-up. Elsewhere,
Nvidia is said to be developing an AI
chip specifically for China. Reuters
reporting the new chip will be more
powerful than the H20 model with the
company aiming to deliver samples for
testing as soon as next month. To me,
this is the true test of how much
President Trump's administration has
bought into the Jensen Huang view of the
world, which is that it is more
important to have a presence in the
technological footprint of China's AI
machine than to avoid selling them
higher uh higher caliber technology to
potentially hamper their march toward uh
AI supremacy. It highlights how the sort
of belt and road question of technology
has really uh permeated this White
House. So the key issue is will they
sign off on this? Will they allow Nvidia
to sell this chip? And if they do, it
indicates a very different way of
looking at US technology and what kind
of safeguards need to be on it going
into China.
>> Most people would assume yes. Yes, with
a price. Yes, if you give us a share of
the revenue, which is where we're at
right now,
>> which actually, and I'm just going to be
really honest, doesn't make any sense to
me on a theoretical level because I
don't understand how that has to do with
national security. And I don't
understand how to sort of expand that
into a framework of where our priorities
are. But at the same time, if it brings
revenues in, then you know, S&P will be
happy.
>> S&P Global very happy with some of the
revenue coming in. We'll talk about that
a little bit later this morning. The
tariff revenue. Nvidia's up in a
pre-market by a few ten of 1%. Let's
finish on trade. President Donald Trump
expanding the list of products subject
to 50% steel and aluminum tariffs. More
than 400 consumer items that contain the
metals are now included, such as
motorcycles and table wear. And as I
read that story, I'm just thinking, you
know what? I looked at that this morning
and just thought, this is still going to
take time. If you're drawing conclusions
about tariff pass through sitting here
in the middle of August, tell me what
you think in a month from now, 2, 3, 4,
5 months from now, because the tariff
pass through is going to take some time
given that the tariff policy is
changing, too. The
>> tariff policy is changing and where
people get their steel is changing. US
steel is very happy about this, and you
saw some of the lobbyists come out very
excited. Meanwhile, the S&P and uh
others out there are saying, "Yay, it's
going to bring in revenues." An
estimated $1 138 billion of revenue uh
with imported duties. It really points a
spotlight to Home Depot and them talking
about how they front ran a lot of the
tariffs. They brought in a lot of the uh
a lot of the goods so they haven't had
to pass along the prices. How much does
that change as this does go on enduring
highly fungeible uh policies when it
comes to what tariffs are put where?
>> Let's get to Home Depot right now.
shares slightly under pressure this
morning. Shoppers pulling back on big
ticket items. That stock is down by
1.2%. Bloomberg's Drew Rading joins us
now for more. So Drew, what's the latest
read of what's happening in US retail?
>> Yeah, so when you think about Home
Depot, you have to think about who their
consumer is. Um, a majority of them are
homeowners, as you would expect.
Typically dual income household holds,
higher income earners. Um, they're
seeing strong employment, strong wage
gain. So, you know, they're still
spending. I think what you need to look
at and what you guys alluded to earlier
is where people and how people are
spending. We're seeing relative strength
and smaller ticket categories, but where
the weakness has been is in those bigger
ticket discretionary categories. And
this is something that's been going on
for several quarters now for Home Depot.
And the reason for that is because rates
are so high. If you think about the type
of projects um that are typically
financed like kitchens, baths, flooring
with rates where they are, consumers are
taking a wait and see approach because
they think rates are going to fall. So,
they're delaying these projects and
that's really where the weakness has
been.
>> So, Drew, this is an important take
because we're all trying to figure out
the answer to the same question. Are we
seeing activity delayed or derailed? Do
you sense that once we get a few rate
cuts in the pipeline from this Federal
Reserve over the next several months, it
will unlock some real activity?
>> Yeah, I think I think it's more of a
project deferral situation. Um, you
know, homeowners have certain projects
that they need to undertake. They need
to do them immediately and then there's
the discretionary categories like we
mentioned which are more subject to that
financing. I think if rates start to
come in and you start to get a little
more activity from a volume perspective
in the housing market, I think that
really starts to boost those demand for
big ticket projects. And the way Home
Depot and even Lowe's has been
positioning themselves over the last
couple of years is to capitalize on
those big ticket projects with
professional contractors as that that
demand starts to reemerge.
>> Drew, appreciate the update. Drew
Running there of Bloomberg. The latest
on Home Depot and the latest on people
making a push to maybe renovate their
kitchens.
>> Yeah. Well, some people are getting
ahead of the rush later and redoing
their kitchens now and actually find
that people are pretty available.
>> Share your story. How's that gone?
What's that like? Access to labor.
>> Access to labor. It actually has been a
lot the deals as well.
>> Yeah. And I think that that Well, I
mean, I think within reason, but people
have imported the goods already and so
you don't have to pay the tariff prices.
So, some people theoretically thought,
let's get ahead of this because the rush
for it will happen later. So, if you do
it now, the prices won't have gone up.
And so far, it seems to be working.
>> Bremo making a move. Home Depot down by
a little more than 1% in the pre-market.
Let's stick with housing. Building
permits and housing starts data coming
out at 8:30 Eastern time. We'll get some
earnings, too. Results from Toll
Brothers after the closing bout. John
Level of UBS writing, "We expect another
solid quarter from Toll Brothers, most
notably in terms of deliveries and
margins, while orders could be a touch
soft." John joins us now for more. John,
good morning.
>> Morning.
>> The bounce is finally happening in home
building stocks. So, I'll throw that out
there first. Why have people suddenly
woken up to all of this over the last
few months or so?
>> So, let's put it into context. So, since
the start of earnings season, the
builder stocks are up about 17% relative
to the market being up about 2%. This is
something we highlighted in our preview
note and we titled it bear trap. And
what we meant by that is that it felt
like investor sentiment had turned far
too negative at a point where consumer
confidence was beginning to improve. And
most importantly, we were approaching
the end of the ear negative earnings
revision cycle. And that's a very
powerful point to get involved in sort
of cyclical early cycle stocks. And so I
think what we're seeing is sort of the
culmination of the consumer kind of
settling in rate stabilizing and people
realizing, hey, you know what, we may be
very close to the bottom.
>> Rate stabilizing. That's a nice way of
saying on the precipice of rate cuts.
How much is this predicated on the idea
that the Fed is going to embark on 100
150 basis points of rate cuts over the
next 18 months?
>> Lisa, I don't think we need it. We're at
659 on the 30-year. That's not a bad
spot to be. I would take, look, I would
take lower rates all day long, but
stable rates are what we really need.
And what that what that means is that
the consumer has an idea of what they're
getting into. Importantly, the companies
can plan their businesses. They can kind
of plan the mortgage rate buy downs. the
cost of those buy downs comes down with
rate stabilization as well.
>> I'm so sorry, but I'm thinking here you
we don't need lower rates. What is we
here? Are you talking about the home
builders, right? Because there are a lot
of people who are screaming at their
screens right now saying we really could
use lower rates and home affordability
has been the lowest that it's been in
decades and generations. So you're
telling us we don't need it. Are you
just talking about home builder
profitability or are you talking about
the housing market as a whole to
actually uh generate some to type of
volume and normaly?
>> It's an interesting question, right? And
I would say that there's two sort of
distinct markets out there today, right?
There's the new construction market
where the home builders have the ability
to buy the rates down and they've done
that very successfully. But to your
point, 90% of sales historically have
been on the existing home side where we
do need we do need rates to come down.
And that sort of turnover in the
existing home market is critical to the
to the long-term success of the market.
Think about it. When an existing home is
sold, there's going to be generally a
purchase on the other end. That could be
a new home or an existing home. But this
part of the market being frozen is not
good for anyone. So lower rates to that
extent are are important.
>> You like Toll Brothers. It's a very
different market. So spell out why you
like Toll Brothers.
>> Yeah. So we've sort of taken a barbell
approach where we like the entry level
because that's a very need-based buyer.
Life events like marriage, children,
things that necessitate more space. On
the other end with Toll Brothers, this
is a buyer that is less concerned about
rates. I mean, 30% of them pay cash.
>> Yes, they pay cash. Um, but you know, on
the flip side,
>> give me that number again. What
percentage pay cash?
>> 25 to 30%.
>> That's for Toll Brothers.
>> For Toll Brothers. Yeah. There's also
about, you know, over $200,000 of very
high margin sort of options and upgrades
that go into these homes. And so, it's
it's a different buyer. Now, Toll
Brothers is not just this high-end
buyer. Keep in mind that their ASP is
about a million dollars, but they span
from, you know, call 400,000 up to 4
million. And so it's a very wide range.
And they've actually changed the
business model to the extent where about
50% of their deliveries are on spec. And
what we mean by that is they're starting
the production of the home before
there's that buyer in place, which helps
them expedite the build.
>> Can we deal with some of the doom and
gloom? I'll throw it out there. Lisa
will weigh in. No doubt she'll double
down.
>> Leis will definitely weigh in.
>> Without a doubt, she'll double down.
>> Not that bearish. I'm redoing my
kitchen.
>> Rama, let's talk about housing. You've
seen the same chance I have. The amount
of unsold inventory. We've heard a lot
of people say this is a market now
that's priced for rates at 3%. Not six
and it's not sustainable. It's going to
break. What would you say back?
>> Yeah, I think look, there are certain
markets where inventory has clearly
built up more than what the builders
would like to see. I mean, there's parts
of Florida, the I4 corridor between
Orlando and Tampa, parts of Texas and
Austin, uh even in Phoenix. But now,
what you're going to see today with the
housing starts is that the builders have
done the very rational thing and they've
pulled back. They said, "Look, we're not
going to push inventory into a market
that is just not receptive." And what
that's going to do very importantly is
clear the path as we move to the back
half of this year and into next year
from an inventory standpoint. A lot of
people say that unless rates come down
significantly, prices have to come down
10 to 15% around the around the country
in order to normalize the housing
supply. Do you push back against that?
>> Absolutely. Yeah, I think we're still
underbuilt massively in in in the US. Um
particularly at the price points that
are most important for today's buyer,
and that's the entry level firsttime
kind of buyer space. There's just not
enough inventory. I find it very hard to
believe that we'll see widespread
declines in pricing. Keep in mind that
we have about 1.8 million units of
single family inventory in the market
today. That's below the the historical
average of 2.4 by about a standard
deviation. So we are still light on
inventory across the board, particularly
at the price points that matter the
most.
>> John, it's good to see you. It's good to
catch up. Good rallying those names that
you cover, too. It's finally happened.
>> Yeah,
>> John, thank you, sir. John Love there of
UBS on a home builders here in the
United States. This is one of the most
sensitive topics in US politics right
now, particularly in this city.
>> What he just said right now explains why
Zoran Mdani is running and why so many
people have really backed him. This is
such a political hot potato because
ultimately housing prices where they are
has really made it so that a lot of a
lot of people in a certain generation
unless their parents are very wealthy
cannot afford to get in on the housing
market. What's the solution to build
more? Right? And this is what people
keep saying. How do you get to that
place? Really is going to be a key
question.
>> The average age of a first-time buyer.
We've all seen the chart. It's just
doing that. Yeah. That's not the chart
you want to see.
>> This to never. And that's sort of what
we're talking about at a time when it
really has to come down to inventory.
>> I like that. Up until the right to
never, you know, something like that,
right?
>> That's kind of what it is.
>> Well, I don't like what I see, but I
like the expression. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahihara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The union representing Air
Canada's flight attendant said the
strike has ended after a tentative
agreement has been reached. The union
advises its members to fully cooperate
with resumption of operations. Air
Canada's flight attendants walked off
the job on Saturday after contracts
talks with the carrier had failed.
Fright flights are set to resume this
evening. Meanwhile, Apple is expanding
its iPhone production in India ahead of
the debut of the iPhone 17 next month.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
Apple plans to produce all four models
in India, marking the first time that
all new variations will ship from the
country. This comes as Apple seeks to
lessen its reliance on China for USbound
models. And Hurricane Aaron is
threatening to cause big problems in the
US. While the category 3 storm is not
expected to make landfall, it is raising
the risk of high winds and flooding
along the Carolina coast. Dangerous rip
currents and flooding are also expected
in other states including Florida and
north to New York. Waves may crest more
than 20 ft on Long Island this Thursday
and Friday according to officials.
That's Bloomberg brief. John,
>> we'll be tracking that. Yahara, thank
you. More from Yahara in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program, a
slowing economy.
>> The economy is slower than people think.
I I think all those job revisions, we're
finally starting to realize, hey, this
economy is slower. There's pressure on
the consumer. I think the global economy
is slowing.
>> That's next for Kit Jes live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Under surveters
this morning, a slowing economy.
The economy is slower than people think.
I I think all those job revisions, we're
finally starting to realize, hey, this
economy is slower. There's pressure on
the consumer. I think the global economy
is slowing. The markets are a little bit
potentially in danger of getting too
comfortable that we get rate cuts for
good reasons.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
strength of the US economy in focus as
investors await Fed share JP Pal's
Jackson Hole speech. Kit Jukes of
Sockgen writing, "The more prices rise
in the data, the worse it will be for
the economy and the Fed should focus
more on the labor market as a result. If
they do that, the dollar will be
vulnerable." Kit joins us now for more.
Kit, welcome to the program, sir. Let's
talk about this FX market driven in the
first half of this year by perceived
capital flows. Do you believe that in
the second half of this year it will be
driven by rate differentials and why?
um rate differentials up to a point
expectations about growth which are
which are often the same thing but but
yes I think but people are um genuinely
uncertain in the sense of at the moment
they're uncertain but aware of the fact
that the world is very long dollars
because we've all put so much money into
the US equity market uh because money's
gone into the US Treasury market because
the US has been outperforming for so
long and that if the economy slows rates
need need to come down significantly um
then then some of those some of the
returns people have enjoyed
are pretty vulnerable. I I think the
market's confused about the short-term
rate story, but confident that that the
big the answer is is the US economy
slowing a little uh or is it in more
danger of a more sign significant
slowdown? And that means we're
overreacting to every single piece of
macroeconomic data with the exception
perhaps of the really sort of minor data
we saw yesterday, but we're lining up to
overreact to each piece we get going
into September. Taking a step back, kid.
Earlier this year, it seemed like a
one-way freight train of sell dollar,
sell the United States. That was the
trade and pretty much everyone lined up
behind it. Is it over? We've kind of
plateaued and kind of shifted around
this level for a couple of months now.
Are we seeing sort of the end of the
sell the America trade and going back to
this sort of nuanced overreacting to
every data point type of landscape?
>> Um, I think the data will decide that. I
think the question then is whether the
US economy is slowing significantly. I
mean, you know, a currency can't go down
as fast as the dollar did or or uh go up
as fast as currencies like the euro did
for for very long. Um, an inflation
targeting central bank reacts to fast
currency moves. An economy reacts to
fast currency moves. So, uh, so so the
move we had in in Euro dollar from 102
up to 118 was too fast. We have to take
time out. Whether that takes us to 125
or we get stuck here depends on how much
or how little the US economy slows in
the next three months, I would have
said. And if we got a repeat of last
month's payroll numbers, if we got
something genuinely soft, uh then I
think we're going to head off into the
middle of the 120s for Euro dollar,
we've got another 5 to 10% weakness in
the dollar in this cycle to come. Um but
um but but you know I wouldn't want to
over interpret some of the data that
we've had in the summer and extrapolate
it out blindly as saying that is what's
definitely going to happen. Uh again if
if if the inflation hit from tariffs
isn't too big the economy is not going
to slow too much. Uh and a very gentle
easing in in US growth doesn't justify
much dollar weakness at all.
>> So let's build on that. Right now we're
looking at 11688 on the Euro dollar
cross. You're saying it could go into
the mid120s if you do see some sort of
significant weakening in the US economy
heading into the fall. What are the key
data prints that you're looking at and
what would constitute that type of
weakness that would really cause that
type of depreciation in the dollar?
Um, so we would set ourselves on that
route if we saw weakness that suggested
not not recession or anything, but that
the Fed's got significant rate cuts to
make, that we're going to get yields
down, that the things that have made
people pour their pour their money into
US assets, uh, need to be questioned at
least temporarily. So, if we saw a, you
know, if we saw a payroll number in the
United States that was, I don't know,
say, only up 100,000 or or weaker than
that at the beginning of September, I
think that would concern people. If you
saw um weakness in the housing market
beyond a small correction, if you saw
softness in in real personal spending uh
as consumers scale back in the face of
higher prices, then I think you you
you'd be sort of forming that that that
that kind of backdrop. Um the advantage
for the consumer who's who's critical in
this is if the inflation data continues
to be held back by uh lower energy
prices. So, if low energy prices offset
tariff increases or if tariff increases
aren't fed through to US consumers, it
all softens the economic blow uh and the
downside to the dollar is reduced.
>> Kit, we're all still wrestling with this
and I imagine many on the committee at
the Federal Reserve are wrestling with
the very same thing which begs the
question going into Jackson Hole. Just
how much can we expect? Neil Dutter,
Renmack, don't expect a strong signal at
Jackson Hole. Jonathan Pingler, UBS, if
you're looking for rate cuts, he says,
quote, I don't think he's going to lock
it in. Kit, do you think he's going to
lock it in in a few days time?
>> I I I'd be surprised if he locks it in,
but the the topic the topic of of the
symposium is the labor market. The labor
market is going to be the thing that
tells us what's happened to the economy.
So, we should hear a really interesting
set of discussions about how they feel
about the labor market and how they feel
about labor market tightness relative to
uh softness in employment gains. Uh, and
if I get any hints from that, um, I will
I will jump on them to to provide me
with a a clue to what they'll do. But,
but I, you know, I I I think that again,
if if the jobs numbers are weak at the
beginning of September after what we saw
last month, frankly, the game's up. So,
that'll tell us what happens. But it'll
be it'll be a very interesting symposium
on on on the labor market.
>> Okay. Just before you go, what's more
likely over the next 12 months or so
that we get three, four, five rate cuts
from the Federal Reserve or Arsenal win
the league?
um 345. Uh yeah, I think Arsenal have
got a decent chance of winning the
league. Uh probably it's probably I'm
slightly more optimistic about that than
about anything in the US economy which
is all up for grabs.
>> Okay, thank you sir Kuks there so Jen K
thank you very much on the FX market and
a little bit of Premier League football.
>> Yeah, they just bought they just beat
Arsenal. Uh Arsenal just beat Man
United. It was a really great game. One
goal.
>> You enjoyed that?
>> It was really good. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
At the front post. I think they actually
doing really well. So,
>> I know you actually watch this, too.
>> I'm starting to. It's sort of ironic
that, you know, maybe a golf will be
next. You know, who knows?
>> Maybe. Speaking of someone yesterday,
found golf very relaxing. They don't
play themselves. They just like watching
it.
>> Yeah. It's the relaxing thing. Yeah,
exactly. Cadence of it all.
>> I prefer starting at a wall.
>> Tour championship this weekend. Just
give it a go.
>> Just give it a go. All right.
>> And sometimes a raw. All right. Up next
on our program, Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax
and Woods, Brian Gardner of Steve,
Angelo Zena of CF, and the brilliant
Priisra on the bond market. Joining us
from JP Morgan,
[Music]
if the labor market deteriorate further,
um, you know, then the Fed can get more
aggressive. It's clear from the recent
data, particularly the employment data,
that we have a dual mandate that is in
conflict.
>> You're going to have to cut. You're
moving in that direction. There's enough
to start the process of cuts, but not
necessarily enough to commit to, you
know, 150 base points of rate cuts.
>> Why would policy be restrictive at a
time when there is so much uncertainty?
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The second
hour of Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now and your scores look like
this. It has been a snoozy couple of
days. Snoozy Monday and pretty quiet
this morning too. We're down by 10 to
the 1% on the S&P 500. Negative by.13 on
the Nasdaq 100. In the pre-market, one
name to watch, Home Depot out with
earnings a little bit earlier on this
morning. Tomorrow we'll hear from Target
the day after from Walmart. That name is
down by let's call it 0.7% out with
numbers about 60 minutes ago. just a
little bit softer than expected.
>> What's most interesting to me about Home
Depot is delayed, not deferred. Right?
This idea that people still have their
projects, the big projects in the works,
but they don't have the conviction to go
through with them. The other interesting
aspect, and this speaks to the question
of how inflationary will tariffs
ultimately be. They talk about not
passing along prices yet. That is
because they brought in a lot of the
goods ahead of some of the tariffs.
Going forward, they do expect to pass on
some of the pricing. This is going to be
a theme. So far, companies have eaten
the tariffs. Will that change in the
months going forward?
>> They're in a fairly good position
arguably for a couple of reasons. They
secure more than 50% correct
>> of their goods, I believe, from the
United States of America. And as for
that delay, we spoke to a couple of
people in the last hour who believe once
you get a reduction in interest rates,
people are going to step back in and
start doing these projects again.
>> But this ultimately goes down to the
dual mandate, right? If you have rates
come down, suddenly demand goes back up
and then people can increase the
pricing, which goes to the question of
inflation. It is the reason why you look
at valuations where they are in this
snoozy August and you wonder how much
room do we have to continue upward? What
will the catalyst be? Are rate cuts
enough given that we've baked them in?
And given the fact that inflation has
not died and that ultimately is going to
be a huge question at a time where we do
see longerterm bond yields creeping
higher around the world, even at a time
when the Fed seems to be uh very much on
course to cut rates.
>> Isn't it nice to have a snoozy August?
>> You know,
>> just like, you know, a little bit quiet.
>> Yeah. Well, just settle down. I'm just
telling you right now, people will be
cursing your name at the end of today
when it's the world is erupting. You do
this every single time there happen in
August.
>> Okay. You really are you ask are you
asking
>> Japan last year? I feel like it was
Japan last year.
>> So, hold on a second. Would you like to
see something strange happen?
>> Look, I am long volatility sat in this
seat. Obviously, I have a bias. I can
share that. That is not a secret. It's
more interesting to me when things are a
little crazier. Get that. But I think a
lot of people deserve a summer. Just
take a beat. Go to the beach. Take a few
weeks off. Re-engage. Just warning when
he says this, re-engage. Start watching
things happen.
>> Re-engage maybe in the bond market.
That's my focus too much. Just this
continued bleed higher in long yields
worldwide. And we spoke to the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson about it just
last week. This leakage on 30 years
worldwide. We talked a lot about that
wall of demand stepping in and buying
backups in yields. You don't really see
that at the very long end of the curve.
That's been like the orphaned segment of
the yield curve globally over the past
six, seven, eight, nine months. And I
think it's going to become a bigger and
bigger problem for policy makers, both
central bankers and fiscal officials
alike.
>> Especially because the ballast of the
bond market had been Japan, which had
been stuck in this sort of morass of no
growth, no inflation. Suddenly there's
inflation. There's the potential for
yield and all of those investors have uh
some sort of incentive to keep their
money home. You start having yields
creep up there. around the world is
going to be that much harder to pressure
yields lower. You add on top of this
inflation, the reindustrialization,
this question of supply chains getting
near short. Suddenly, it's a very
different picture and it clearly is one
keeping a number of policy makers up at
night.
>> We made it interesting. There you go.
30-year bond yields this morning down
about a basis point, very close to 5%.
That 30-year yield at about 492. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Saxon Woods as stocks
slip with earnings in focus. Brad
Gardner of Steve Full as President Trump
is pushing for a meeting between Putin
and Zilinski and Angelo Zeno of CFRA as
the White House is weighing a 10% stake
in Intel. We begin this hour with stocks
inching lower. Sarah Hun of Alpine Sax
and Woods writing investors seem
positioned for positive earnings
surprises into 26, but we expect higher
volatility as summer gives way to fall.
Sarah joins us now for more. Good
morning, Sarah.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. What's the source
of that volatility going to be? I think
the uncertainty that's coming around the
timing of what's happening in tariffs,
the timing like there was an
announcement today that aluminum and
steel in different products was going to
be taxed at a different rate and that it
did not include it did include goods in
transit. I think all those kinds of
things make for problems for potential
earnings. I think the uncertainty around
what spending is going to happen.
Something like what's going on with Home
Depot, not such a huge thing, not a big
surprise. a lot of big ticket items, not
so much people bought ahead of tariffs,
but I think that there is some concern
about what this is going to do to
margins and what it's going to do to
earnings. And that's going to, I think,
add to volatility.
>> Well, let's stay on this. Which way do
you think it breaks? Let's say we've got
a company right now in America that was
importing a lot of goods, a lot of
pre-tariff inventory of the goods they
imported that were tariffed. They were
absorbing that on margin. Do you believe
that's going to lead to, say, cost
cutting, a labor market hit, or do you
believe it leads to higher prices?
They're going to pass it on to the
consumer.
>> I think they're going to try to do both.
I think they're going to try to get
their costs in line as much as they can.
And I think they're going to try to push
price to the extent that they can. And
the question really is, as these targets
have been moving all year, did we get
such a backup in demand that we pulled
for a lot of activity and are we
therefore going to see some softness
anyway or is this going to be so gradual
that it's that it doesn't have as big an
impact as a as a big one-day slam dunk
situation? And I think that's the
question and how this plays into PPI and
CPI because a tariff isn't really
inflation itself. It's a tax, but it
doesn't matter because if the price
levels are moving higher, it doesn't
matter. To the consumer, it feels like a
problem because prices are higher. I
remember long time ago at the end of
July when people said August tends to be
volatile. Watch out. It tends to be the
witching month. Well, we're up, you
know, 1.7% on the S&P. We've reached new
high after new high. Sure, we've been
down for a couple days, but down is sort
of a relative statement given that we're
going nowhere. At what point are we just
pushing off this volatility showing that
the paint trade still is higher?
>> So, I think that right now we've got
Jackson Hole coming up this week. If you
recall, last year it was the labor
numbers in August that came in that that
really threw things off for the Fed and
people started to worry about the labor
market. The data is un uncertain enough
that right now it's like it needs a push
one way or the other. The fact that
there is talks with Russia and Ukraine,
whether they get to peace or not, that's
probably a net benefit to most things
except potentially energy, which is not
the worst thing in the world either
because that helps everybody else with
lower energy prices. I think the
question's really going to be where do
we end up in terms of the consumer and
where do we end up in terms of inflation
and what happens to companies and are
they laying people off? Does that affect
the labor market? All those interplays
are uncertain now and I don't know how
much clarity we get in three or four
weeks but you could see some uneven
data.
>> Right now a number of people are talking
about trying to just get a little bit
more defensive. We see that in the
investment grades market with spreads
getting to the lowest levels going back
to 1998. And the theory here is there's
going to be some weakness and
potentially you could see it in a
stagflationary type of feel. Are we
getting to a place where the high-f
flyers, the tech exposed stocks will
continue to perform even as the rest of
the market continues to just kind of
grind nowhere because of that type of
dynamic of seglation and because of the
dynamic that there's still a lot of
growth in that sector. There's still a
lot of cash flow and they're not being
impacted as negatively as some of the
companies that don't have the technology
aspect. So, as that technology throws
through flows through, maybe you do get
some margin expansion from that, right?
Because that's the big argument about AI
is that it's going to help us and it's
going to help productivity and that's
going to help margins. So there's a
little bit of an offset whether or not
we get that. The big spend right now is
still in technology. So those stocks are
at a premium valuation for a reason
because people can see through and see
forward.
>> Lisa mentioned investment grade credit
spreads. Let's spend a couple of minutes
on that. This is important. Super tight.
Tightest level since when? Was it 98?
>> 98.
>> This side of this century which is
absolutely bonkers. Do you think that
tells you more about confidence in
corporate America or a lack of
confidence in the Treasury in the US
government and in fact for sovereigns
worldwide?
I think it probably has to do more with
the confidence in the companies
themselves and the balance sheets of the
companies themselves. I think there's a
little bit of that on the sovereign side
because as debt levels rise globally,
there is concern on the sovereign side
that we hadn't seen prior to those
massive increases in debt post the
financial crisis. But if you look at the
way that that public companies at least
have been managing their cash flows and
balance sheets, there's a reason those
spreads are so tight. One, it was a
yieldchasing operation. And the other
one is they're in pretty good financial
shape. There isn't a lot of credit
weakness on a lot of the publicly traded
stuff. So the IG and those spreads are
very, very narrow because there isn't a
lot of daylight between that right now.
There's another way of asking what John
asked, which is even with spreads at the
narrowest since 1998, is there still
value because there is any spread above
benchmark government rates given that
their creditworthiness on some level
might be better in some respects than
the US government. I think that's one of
the reasons that you saw some of those
corporates be able to borrow at
ridiculously low rates, right? Because
people looked at them and said, "Those
stabilities of cash flow are way better
than some governments that I've seen." I
think in the end there's always a place
for fixed income when it has finally a
yield, which it does. If you're matching
portfolios, if you're matching exposure,
or if you're just looking for safety and
preservation of capital, there's always
a space for that. And I think that right
now it's not a it's not a bad place to
be if you know that you need that money
in a short period of time. Longer term,
do we think that rates maybe go higher
in the long end? They could. It's
unusual to stay this low for this long.
Are corporate bonds a better hedge right
now, a better safety play than
government bonds given the fact that
they also have these strong balance
sheets behind them?
>> I think that the volatility in
governments is much more policydriven
than it would be for corporates. So to
the extent that you might see more
volatility in the government market and
we have over the last year, which is
more last couple of years, it's more
surprising to see that much volatility
in government spreads. So to the extent
that there's less vol in the in the IG
market, I think that's not a wrong
thought. Sarah, good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by. Thoughtful stuff. Sarah
Hunt there of Alpine Sax and Woods. I
believe it was Brian Weinstein, then at
Morgan Stanley, now Apollo. But when he
was at Morgan Stanley, I think he sat
around this table and we talked about
the prospect of IG spreads trading
through actually seeing them go through
treasuries.
>> And what Sarah Hunt just said there, I
thought was really compelling. the idea
that you could see less volatility in
corporate bond yields than you could
government bond yields because they're
not going to be subject to tariff
announcements or some other proclamation
that could have the same kind of
volatility on long-term government bond
yields. So maybe Apple maybe Apple's not
the best example. Maybe Microsoft
spreads are going to trade inside uh
10ear Treasury yields at some point at a
theater near you.
>> It's pretty amazing, isn't it, that
we've got the tightest spread since 98,
equities at alltime highs, and we're
having this conversation about a
deceleration in the economy and and rate
cuts coming soon. Well, this to me is
the conundrum. How can we be talking
about the need for more accommodation
when you see record highs in a number of
different risk instruments in the US
equity market and you just see that the
US equity market and the US bond market
has gotten so divorced from the
underlying economy that we're talking
about two different things and that
continues to be a conundrum for the Fed.
>> Two very different worlds. S&P futures
this morning negative by 0.1% on the S&P
500 with an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahira. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. President Trump is pushing for
a one-on-one summit between Ukraine's
President Zilinski and Russia's
President Putin to discuss terms that
could bring an end to the war. Trump
urged Putin to consider the plans after
European leaders joined Zilinski at that
at the White House yesterday. The summit
would would be followed by a trilateral
gathering involving President Trump.
Meanwhile, sales for Home Depot coming
in shy of expectations in the latest
quarter with consumers staying away from
big purchases as they continue to face
higher interest rates and inflation
concerns. The world's largest home
improvement retailer said comparable
sales grew 1% in the fiscal sk second
quarter, less than analysts had
expected, but an improvement from the
prior quarter. Shares are higher.
Meanwhile, Nvidia shares are also edging
higher up 210 of 1% as the company is
reportedly developing a new AI chip
tentatively being called the B30A.
According to Reuters, the chip would
specifically be for China and would be
more powerful than the H20 model. The
B30A chip is likely to deliver half the
raw computing power of Nvidia's flagship
B300. That's your Bloomberg reef. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara about
30 minutes away. Up next on the program,
Europe's charm offensive.
>> We had very good conversation with
President Trump.
>> I really want to thank you, uh,
President of the United States, dear
Donald, for the fact that you, as I said
before, broke the deadlock. So far,
nobody nobody's been able to bring it to
this point. So, I thank you for that.
>> That conversation up next with Brian
Gardner of Steve, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Stocks are doing okay. We're down about
a tenth of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
100. Softer by 0.14 on the Russell after
a brief breakout. It didn't last long.
We're down about 0.16% so far this
morning. Under surveillance this
morning, Europe's charm offensive.
>> We had very good conversation with
President Trump. It was really good and
we spoke about very sensitive points.
>> I really want to thank you uh president
of the United States Donald as I said
before broke the deadlock.
>> Thank you Mr. President for organizing
this uh this meeting and for your
commitment. So something is changing.
Something has changed thanks to you.
>> And so far nobody nobody's been able to
bring it to this point. So I thank you
for that.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump looking to strike
a deal on security for Ukraine while
pushing for a meeting between Russian
President Putin and the Ukrainian leader
Zilinski. Blindberg's Ollie Kirk joins
us now for more. Ollie, something's
changed. What changed?
Yeah, I think that what has changed in
the last 48 hours is going out of the
sort of abstract on this idea of the
security architecture after a sort of
peace proposal which of course the backs
stop the article 5 style conditions
where the United States would support um
Ukraine in the event of a peace deal
that was basically fundamentally to
getting a deal over the line and that is
something that Donald Trump himself not
just Steve Woff not just Marco Rubio
said that he would be there to stand by
in some capacity in terms of securing
security guarantees for Ukraine. in the
future. Now what that exactly means is
still very much up in the air. But what
the European leaders can say and is in
fact factually true in fact the European
leaders are meeting right now to debrief
from that meeting yesterday is that
there is an architecture that is
currently being worked on at the top
level by the United States and the
Europeans. So but what I think John is
very interesting here is that we tend to
focus on selling this to the United
States. This defense architecture
selling it to the Ukrainians to a
certain degree selling it to the
Russians. What we have not really talked
about and this is going to be the next
task at hand is selling it domestically
here in these European capitals. These
were European leaders that were very
unified in Washington DC. They don't
necessarily have that kind of rock solid
commitment um and sort of unity within
their own capitals. You think just of
the Germans who last week the AFD, the
right-wing party in Germany who's been
very pro-Russian, very against giving
more support to Ukraine. They became the
number one most popular party in Germany
last week. If you're talking about
potentially putting German boots on the
ground within Ukraine to secure its
defense in the future, that is going to
be a very difficult cell politically.
So, there's still a conversation here in
Europe that needs to happen about boots
and of course money because the United
States is not going to pay for it.
>> Well, Ollie, let's talk about the money.
This came from the Financial Times.
They're reporting Ukraine will promise
to buy 100 billion dollars of American
weapons financed by Europe in a bid to
obtain US guarantees for its security
after a peace settlement with Russia.
What are you hearing about that?
Yeah. So listen, this is going to be
part of the conversation going forward
and there are a lot of different
programs that are currently in place to
buy a lot of these arms. There's a lot
of question about John, you know, that
almost half a trillion dollars that the
Germans are going to spend on defense.
How much of that are they going to
willing to be to put forward to ensure
European uh to ensure Ukrainian
security? This is the fundamental
question, Don. We talk about joint debt.
This is something that comes in and out
of the sort of periphery and the sort of
main conversation here in Brussels. it's
sort of faded away. At a certain point,
John, I think it's inevitable. We're
going to be back at the conversation at
these finance ministers meetings like we
were, you know, 10 years ago, um, at the
sort of height of the financial crisis
talking about joint debt because how is
this going to get paid for? The
Europeans do not have the military
hardware. What they do have is some a
little bit of fiscal space, not that
much of it. They're going to probably
have to look at look debt financing
this. This is something that they did in
the pandemic. It's something that's
going to be reopened once again. Hundred
billion dollars is a lot of money. It is
money that Ukraine does not have and the
Europeans need to pull together in order
to keep the United States on board.
>> Ollie, appreciate it. Ollie, with the
latest over in Brussels, joining us now
to extend the conversation, Brian
Gardner of Steall. Brian, welcome to the
program. Let's take it from the top.
What are the details as far as you
understand of what the security
arrangement might look like? I think Ali
hit the the main points and I think the
big takeaway is it still has yet to be
finalized that yes you do have a
European financing component um with US
uh US selling uh arms to Ukraine. Big
question is in in terms of the security
guarantee is boots on the ground. I mean
is this security agreement going to
include NATO troops, US troops? I don't
think anybody knows that yet. So I I
guess Jonathan, the the the ultimate
answer to your question is that we still
don't really know what the details of
the agreement are. Maybe there really
isn't an agreement in place. It's an
agree to move forward with some kind of
framework, but not a real agreement yet.
>> Brian Ali raised a really good point,
this question of selling this deal,
whatever it may look like at home. And
there's a real question in the United
States about how much appetite there is,
what type of popular support there is in
furthering this effort in putting boots
on the ground from the United States,
from giving any money from the United
States or potentially from not doing
such uh actions given some of the
previous polls. What's your take on
where the populace is?
>> So throughout the the Ukraine conflict,
US population, US voters have pretty
solidly been behind supporting Ukraine.
that has slipped over time, but it's
still, I think, a majority. I think most
polls would show a majority of American
support supporting Ukraine. Um, the
question is boots on the ground. And
this becomes not just an issue for the
broader population, may maybe more uh
specifically for the Trump base, the
MAGA base, which has been against
forever wars. It's against US
international involvement. They see this
as a European problem, not an American
problem.
um this could create a big split within
the Trump base. That being said, he has
a unique hold over that base. So, you
know, are they going to stick with the
principles that led them to back Trump,
which was, you know, kind of make
America first, make America great,
America first policies, or are they
going to then shift and say, you know,
um he's our guy and we're going to
follow him even though this is not what
we voted for. But there there there is a
there is a question coming up about uh
his support among his within his base.
>> Well to build on that Brian I mean this
is sort of the question at a time when
there are so many different domestic
issues that are facing the government.
Why is President Trump spending so much
time with this? What is your sense of
why at this moment President Trump is
getting so engaged in trying to bring
about the trilateral meeting? I think
it's the same answer uh if if we were
talking about tariffs, which is legacy,
right? Everything that Trump is doing at
this point, especially on these big uh
big issues uh is about legacy. Uh I I
think he knows deep down that when
historians write the history of his
presidency, uh foreign policy is going
to play an outsized role in that. It
always does. going back to World War I
and Wilson, World War II, the Cold War,
presidents have been defined through for
the last h 100red years by their foreign
policy accomplishments and failures. and
to bring peace to Ukraine
um as as it what he's working on in the
Middle East. If he's able to accomplish
this um despite all the noise about what
goes on domestically in the United
States, that is going to set him apart
in his mind from a lot of other
presidents and that historians will be
very kind to him uh as they write the
history of his presidency.
>> Brian, something really big and
transformative is happening to American
power on the global stage. It feels like
we're blending national security
initiatives with commercial objectives.
A colleague of mine, Steve who put this
out on X in the last 24 hours, PAX
Americana as a service. He's being
snarky, but you can see how this might
play out. If you want us to be a
superpower on the global stage, you're
going to help pay for it seems to be the
message. Brian, how are you thinking
about that change? Because that's a big
shift.
>> Yeah, I I I think there's a shift
internationally. I think there's a shift
domestically. Jonathan, um, you know,
I'm probably going to get in trouble for
saying this. Um, but, you know, I I
don't necessarily view Donald Trump as a
capitalist. I think he's more of a
mercantalist. And I think that I think
your question and viewing how US
economic domestic economic policy go
hand in hand. I can I think you can see
that shift there from capitalism to
mercantalism where the state has, yes,
there is private property. um you can
you can make uh you can make profit, but
the state is going to have more of a say
in how you do that. And then on on the
international side, yes, um we're going
to help, but you're going to you're
going to pay for it. I I I think there's
a big shift both internationally and
domestically going on.
>> Ryan, we'll keep tracking it. Appreciate
your time. Brian Garder there. In just a
moment, we'll catch up with Angelo Zeno
of CFR talking about the White House
taking a 10% stake of Intel. That speaks
to exactly this conversation we're
having right now about national
security.
>> Yeah. And what Brian said, which is he
sees President Trump as more of a
mercantalist, someone who uh believes in
the government controlling more of a
stake in terms of uh some of the key
businesses than just allowing capitalism
to run a muk. And that seems to be the
Intels of the world, the give us a slice
of the Nvidia chips of the world. But if
you look back, a lot of different kind
of republics in the past, I'm thinking
of Rome for example, controlled the
trade routes and controlled these
things. So it's not without precedent.
And this is something that some of the
big rivals, I'm thinking of China, do
with a much more aggressive thumb.
>> Capitalism with Trumpian
characteristics,
>> I guess. So
>> it's kind of what this is developing
into. We'll talk more about Intel and
that 10% stake in just a moment. We'll
speak to Angela Zeno of CF Plus. Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers and a
move in sympathy with Home Depot from
New York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The opening about two hours away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 pulling back by
just a tenth of 1%. No drama so far this
Tuesday morning. down by 0.14 on the
NASDAQ 100. With your morning movers,
let's cross over to Danny Burger. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. The drama's even evaporated
for Home Depot, which about an hour and
a half ago reported earnings that were
disappointing. Their comparable store
sales for the second quarter up only 1%.
The expectation was for 1.4. They talked
about the fact that people weren't
buying larger ticket items. Shares
though have erased gains are now up 210
of 1%. They did talk about a lot of
purchases still for smaller DIY type
things. So maybe that's helping keep
things afloat just to flag though. We're
going to get Lowe's earnings tomorrow.
Those shares are still down only
slightly a third of a percent in
reaction. We also had Medronic earnings.
This is the medical device maker. What a
volatile session it has been for this
company. First, the journal before the
earnings reported that Elliot had taken
a stake in the company was adding
director. Shares went up 10%. They
reported earnings and shares fell.
They're now down 3% despite some pretty
solid earnings. They even upgraded their
outlook saying that the tariff hit would
be less than expected, but maybe a buy
uh buy the rumor, sell the news kind of
thing happening here. Finally, Intel,
though, shares continue to rally this
morning, up 5%, a big 12 hours for them
with uh the Trump administration
reportedly mulling taking a 10% stake in
SoftBank, investing $2 billion, buying
that much of Intel shares. So, again,
those shares up 5% with the big bets
from the government and SoftBank. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. us. More on that story in a
few minutes time. On our radar this
morning, one of our top stories
worldwide, President Donald Trump saying
a meeting between Russian leader
Vladimir Putin and the Ukrainian
President Vladimir Zilinski is in the
works and could be followed by a
trilateral meeting that would also
include the President of the United
States. Elsewhere, the outlook for US
credit remains stable. S&P Global
affirming a double A+ rating, saying the
revenue from President Trump's tariffs
will help to balance the cuts made in
the massive tax and spending bill. two
things. Number one, exactly that is the
reason why it is going to be so
difficult for anyone to take these
tariffs off. This is the reason why it's
going to be politically incredibly
difficult for whoever follows President
Trump to reverse some of the tariffs
regardless of the legalities involved.
That's number one. Number two, a kind of
tension is emerging here. If you're
counting on the revenues to really boost
the uh deficit coffers of a government,
that means that you expect to not
necessarily bring that much production
back to the United States. It is sort of
a a a carrot and horse or stick or
whatever expressions. I never get the
expressions right.
>> Anyway, live TV. Can we rewind? We can
rewind. Start again. How about that?
Your thoughts? But there's this real
question of can you count on revenues
for something that you hope to change on
a structural basis? And that I think is
what a lot of people are looking at.
>> Yeah. Look, you totally nailed it. I'm
going to stop laughing and you can too.
It's the ultimate contradiction of the
policy. If you believe the tariffs will
work, then you won't raise any revenue
because the manufacturing will come
home. And ultimately, if you're relying
on the revenue, then you're also relying
on the manufacturing not coming home.
And
>> that's the ultimate tension I think as
this plays out. Right now it seems like
a lot of companies are saying look it's
better for us to keep importing goods
from elsewhere even by paying the
tariffs than to try to make it
domestically. And I guess that some of
the policy is counting on that
continuing. Uh with Scott Besson coming
out and talking about this with you
saying that uh all of the tariff
revenues for 2025 could be well in
excess of 1% of the United States's GDP.
>> So if you look at those numbers, he's
looking for something north of 300
billion. CBO's telling you the recent
bill that's passed will add 3.4 trillion
over the next 10 years. You can see how
these things stack up. Of course, none
of this is going to be static and it can
all change over the next few years.
>> This is the reason why you haven't seen
yields go even higher at the long end.
And when you see some of the revenues
coming in and some of the projections,
you've actually seen longend treasury
yields go down. So, there clearly has
been a pretty active uh type of
discussion in markets about just how
much the tariff revenue is offsetting
some of what we're seeing with the
expenditures
>> and the carrots and horses and sticks
and all of that. I love that.
>> I don't I don't know. It's like you put
them together, what comes first? The the
horse or the or the carriage? The cart
or the horse? I hate
>> We'll figure this out. Commercial break.
I'm going to move on. I want to talk
about Apple expanding new iPhone
production in India. The tech giant
wants to reduce its dependence on China
for models being sent to the US and
avoid new tariffs. All four iPhone 17
models will be made in India ahead of
their debut next month. This was the
development that really irked this white
house over the past few months and I
think puts some daylight not only
between the president and Apple but also
the president and India.
>> The fact that Apple is doubling down on
this though highlights a how they cannot
make policy according to what a tariff
rate is threatened as at any given
moment and also highlights uh their
determination to move away from China
and depending entirely on production
there. So to me, the fact that they're
continuing with this despite the fact
that this raised eye with President
Trump shows the difficulty that a lot of
companies are in trying to make
long-term planning at a time of
short-term policy shifts.
>> Stepping into the realm of speculation
just a little bit, if we were to speak
to the trade strategist Tim Cook this
morning and ask him what does it tell
you about what he thinks is going to
happen with tariffs in India over the
next 12 months? Well, that's a great
point, especially as they're being used
as some sort of negotiating tool in the
Russia Ukraine talks. It seems like he's
expecting those to come down in a
material way.
>> That's the latest on Apple. Let's stick
with tech in this story, a developing
one. Shares of Intel whipsaring after
sources here at Bloomberg reported the
Trump administration is considering
taking a 10% stake in the chip maker.
Bloomberg's Tom McKenzie joins us now
from London for more. Tom, that's about
10 billion. Where's the money coming
from,
>> John? This is a conversion. The plan, at
least according to our reporting, is you
convert the subsidies under the chips
act of which Intel has received about
$2.2 billion US to date, but is in line
to receive almost 11 billion US. You
convert that into equity that gives you
your approximate 10% stake in Intel
again according to our reporting. Is
this a lifeline from the US government
or is it a vote of confidence in the CEO
Lit Bhutan of course whose fortunes have
whipsed under the pressure from
President Trump came out of that meeting
last week and President Trump spoke
highly of him and his background at a
time of course when we have Softbanker
and Massioan also putting in2 billion US
dollars into Intel of course massa has a
relationship with Lupan Lupan used to be
on the board of Soft Bank what's clear
from SoftBank's investment is they
certainly see a vote of confidence in
the Trump administ ation's policy at
least efforts to reshore some of that
manufacturing to US shores that came out
that was clear in that statement from
Massan. The key question around the the
government investment is does this also
apply to other tech companies within the
US sphere if you're Texas Instruments or
Micron or Global Foundaries? Should you
also be looking potentially at a US
government stake in your business?
>> Tom, these are really thoughtful
questions. I think something as that
you've now and I've listened to you,
I've been hearing you talk about this
over in Europe. The strategy of Intel
was about to change. It felt like we
were going into a world where you had to
make a choice. You design or you build.
And now the US government wants to build
out domestic foundry capacity. I imagine
they still want Intel to do both. Tom,
do you see some tension there between
what the strategy might have been and
what it might be now?
Uh to your to your point, John, look,
this is a business that wants to be
designing and competing with Nvidia.
It's not doing that yet. Its ambitions
are to match Nvidia in terms of
nanometers, 1.8x 8 by 25 26 towards the
end of 26 I should say and then there's
the foundaries business and that plan in
Ohio for a super foundry those two
aspects design and build not a conundrum
of course that Nvidia has to face up to
with just the focus on design the
politics suggest that the Trump
administration will want that buildout
of the foundry in Ohio and the design is
where the margins are so that's a key
question for investors because Another
element that has not been put to play
yet is an Intel that is better
capitalized but still doesn't have
customers for that mega foundry if
indeed what that is what the Trump
administration wants to see at the end
of this is the buildout of those
facilities in Ohio.
>> Tom McKenzie with the latest. Tom, thank
you sir. I'm going to take that note and
throw it over to Angelo Zeno of CFR
race. Got a hold rating on the stock
price target of 24. Angelo, I'm sure
that you were following that
conversation. And that last point is a
really important point and I know you've
explored it in your research because
I've read it. Can you imagine a scenario
where Intel builds out domestic foundry
capacity and then the US government
effectively puts pressure on fabulous
vendors to ultimately use it.
>> I mean I and John I think that would
kind of been almost the almost the
intent here for the the US government in
many respects. I think you if you kind
of give um Intel essentially a lifeline
here in terms of funding that really
doesn't do anything if you think about
it right I mean it doesn't really solve
the the problem that Intel has here.
Intel really has two problems. One is
the design aspect of things. It's it's
having the right product out there to
compete with the likes of an Nvidia and
an AMD which they are you know like
years behind at this point especially
kind of in terms of having the right AI
offerings um on the the data center
server side and then the other issue is
is clearly as far as their foundry
initiatives are concerned ramping that
up finding external customers um you
know to really take that capacity and um
when you start thinking about that
really um I would think the whole
objective here for the US government is
in many respects to to try to strongarm
their way into getting the likes of you
know an Apple or Nvidia or Qualcomm or
Broadcom any of those names even those
were even names at one point um
considered to potentially acquire um a
name Intel right so um we'll kind of see
how this all evolves but I think
ultimately yeah I mean the US government
probably wants to push some sort of
business to Intel in some way. I would
say this, um, as far as the 232, um,
semiconductor investigation goes as
well, which we're still waiting on the
details of that. Um the US government
we've heard from Trump recently is you
know he's potentially looking to give an
exemption here to potentially an a
company like Taiwan Semi which would
almost um you know disincent
disincentifies companies from actually
um you know using uh Intel's local uh
production. So it'll be interesting to
kind of see how you know all these
moving parts really work itself out.
>> Soft Bank's buying, the United States
government's buying. What would it take
for Angelo Xeno to buy for Angelo Zeno
to actually see this as actually having
a real upside ahead with the prospect
that at least more customers would be
using their foundry?
>> Yeah, I I think you definitely need a
white knight in there, right? I mean,
you need to get um you need to get
actual validation from a major uh
external customer out there to actually
give their stamp of approval to um Intel
and what they're doing. And I'm not
necessarily talking about, you know, um,
you know, some token business that we've
seen um, from the likes of a Microsoft
or an Amazon. You need to have a company
like an Apple and Nvidia actually come
out and give their full support uh, to
Intel. And um, again, this is something
along the lines of potentially the US
administration coming going to uh,
Nvidia and saying, "Hey, listen, help us
out maybe in some respect and give Intel
some business." and potentially maybe
we'll say um you know maybe we won't
charge you that 15% you know from um
business going into um China. So it'll
be interest again it'll be interesting
to h how this stuff all plays out but
what we do want to see is um something
is in terms of a white knight in terms
of that foundry business and you also do
want to see some success on the product
side but at this point in time the
product side just looks like it's just
going to take a lot of work and a lot of
time u but at this point in time listen
I think this is a very hard um buy if
you're an investor I think there are
just the opportunity cost is just way
too high there are just so many better
opportunities within the the
semiconductor ecosystem rather than
looking at Intel at this point in time.
>> Angelo, just can you give us some color
on what the barriers are that Intel has
to to cross in order to catch up to
TSMC? What do they have to do? Is it on
a a talent side of things? Is it on an
actual capacity side of things? Or is it
in just a nuts and bolts hardware side?
I think you know when you think about
the you know what we heard when when
Intel actually tried getting into the
the whole foundry space is that it was
going to be a lot harder than um
Gellzinger at that point thought it was
going to be and a big reason for that is
the servicing aspect of of a foundry
business is a lot more complicated than
one thinks right um so what they've
actually been able to do over the last
couple years is to some extent try to
you know close the gap on the technology
manufacturing side and I think that's
been a huge help. But, you know, really
they haven't executed and and have been
able to really show um external
customers that they've been able to find
success actually servicing um and kind
of meeting those, you know, the the
potential obligations that these
external customers have. And again, it's
almost kind of um an external customer
out there really taking that leap of
faith at this point in time more than
anything else. um you know in in order
to to to in for Intel to start finding
some success. But if you actually go
back just a month ago, I mean Li Bhutan
actually was on an earnings call and
said no more blank checks, right? And um
you've now got the US government in here
almost kind of um looking to to
accelerate some of these um you know
initiatives and hopefully um get Intel
to get this all right. Angelo, let's
pretend that we're talking about China
and Intel's a Chinese company and the
Chinese government's about to do what
the US government is thinking of doing.
We wouldn't accept those chips. So,
let's talk about the Chinese business.
How big is Intel's business in China?
And what are the Chinese about to do if
this carries through?
>> That that is actually a great point,
right? I mean, when you think about it,
right? So, um about 30% of their revenue
uh is from China at this point in time.
And I think that to some extent that's
got to be at risk. I mean there there
was an effort here by or there has been
an effort by the the Chinese government
to deemphasize a lot of you know the the
um US-based designers but specifically
when you look at at Intel and even AMD
CPU oriented businesses um into the PC
market um you know there's a way there
there's a path here for the for the
Chinese government to um you know reduce
their reliance um on Intel and even AMD
here over the next couple of years. So
potentially you see that accelerate
because maybe to your point um if you're
the Chinese government, do you really
want to be investing in um Intel and
leveraging Intel if it's somewhat owned
by the US government? So um there is
risk at least for Intel's China business
I think here over the next you know
couple of years if we see that US
government stake there.
>> Want to give you some credit Angelo not
my point your point it was at the bottom
of your note Angela Zenino. Angelo,
thank you sir. Appreciate it. Thank you
very much. Angela Zenino there of CF.
The point on China is a really important
one. Big slice of the revenue comes from
that country. They're not going to like
this development at all.
>> Yeah. The idea of state planning, how
does that deal with the idea of national
security elsewhere and that's going to
be a real issue as China has already
instructed some of its biggest tech
players to avoid buying from the likes
of Nvidia and maybe Intel at a time
where they can't really avoid that. And
that's what we've seen in a number of
different reports. Intel so far this
morning just a little bit firmer. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's your
Hira. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. Google is betting on nuclear
power. The tech giant has struck a deal
with the Tennessee Valley Authority and
startup Cairo's power. The first binding
agreement in the US with a new kind of
smaller, safer nuclear reactor. It will
supply 50 megawws to federal utility TVA
which powers Google's data hubs in the
region. The project is expected to go
live by 2030. Meanwhile, the amount of
visitors to the US arriving on student
visas has plunged for its fourth
consecutive months with the biggest
declines coming from Asia. US
universities have already warned that
firsttime foreign student enrollment on
campuses are projected to fall by about
30% this fall, potentially costing the
education sector $2.6 billion in tuition
revenue. and Carlos Alcarez won the
Cincinnati Open final after Yannik
Center pulled out due to illness in the
first set. The match lasted just 22
minutes amid scorching heat and
humidity. It was the fourth time this
year the two superstars have met in a
final. Alcarez who is ranked number two
now holds a 9 to5 advantage in his
matchups with center looking forward to
the US Open. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Ditto just not looking forward to trying
to buy tickets because it's so bloody
expensive every single year. qualifiers.
That's where you get to see all the
different players and you get to see a
lot of things and it's a lot cheaper.
That's what my family's doing, but I'm
at work, so it's nice over there.
Exactly. Nice experience out. You know,
some people are friends with the ball
boys, etc.
>> We'll have a rant on New York sports
another day. It's just expensive. Up
next, waiting for a response
>> from the Fed.
>> The Fed needs to respond to what's
actually happening in the real economy.
demand is the principal reason why labor
market conditions have slowed and um you
know that's something the Fed ultimately
will need to respond to
>> just this massive concentration of
wealth in one city they all like the
same sports and anyway couldn't hold it
in
>> access yeah
>> couldn't hold it
>> everyone was waiting for it so
>> premiser JP Morgan joins us next on the
bond Okay.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. under surveillance this
morning. Global bond yields ticking
higher ahead of comments from Fed chair
JPAL due Friday. Premier of JP Morgan
writing, "The dual mandate is intention,
but we think a September 25 basis point
rate cut is likely and a signal for more
cuts to come as the Fed removes the
level of restriction in monetary policy.
For more, Priya joins us around a
table." Pria, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> It's good to see you. RBC has talked
about this. A lot of people are focused
on it. is the long end becoming
unanchored from the front end not just
domestically but worldwide when you look
at the bond market at the moment
>> so I'm glad you bring up the global side
because I think that's absolutely
important global term premiums are
correlated the fact that we have fiscal
expansion globally the fact that there
isn't that much demand for long duration
is the reason why UK German long yields
are rising and that's raising US rates
as well but I mean talking about the
long end getting unang anchored um sell
America or the deficit that's like very
April. I mean, I know it was only a few
months, only a few months ago, but you
look at the tariff revenues, they're
coming in. They're actually offsetting
the trip the OOT triple B, the one big
beautiful bill. I think it's going to
largely offset it. You look at the South
America trade, we're not seeing evidence
that foreign investors have stayed away.
Now, there is a longerterm question. How
much should Treasury, and I love your
question to Secretary Besson, how much
should you issue in the long end? I
think all Treasury departments have to
think about that and maybe not issue as
much in the long end. And that might be
happening issue where the demand is the
demand and you see it in the credit
market, the mortgage market, the
treasury market. Demand's in the belly
of the curve five to 10 year. That's
where they can issue. So yes, it's a
little unanchored. You can trade the
curve on that front. But I don't think
we're looking at a scenario that bears
steepener, which is the nightmare
scenario for risk assets as well, is
when all rates rise led by the long end.
We're not seeing that. I think the curve
is steepening for different reasons.
Now,
>> are we going to see the opposite? You
said that sell America is so April.
Okay. Are we actually outright into buy
America again as we see the dollar firm
up in a couple of different pockets and
the long end yes yields have been rising
but not necessarily unmed in the way a
lot of people were worried about.
>> Exactly. So I do think that US
exceptionalism, remember we talked about
it just a few months ago. Is that over?
Look at the economic data. We're pricing
it. Look at financial markets. You know,
I know the financial markets is not the
economy, but it is pricing in. I think
markets across the board are pricing in
a soft landing and what Governor Gwaler
called good news rate cuts that maybe
the Fed can reduce accommodation. Those
rates can fall a little bit allowing the
broadening out of the recovery. I mean,
we have the structural AI tech uh capex
in there, but maybe this can broaden up.
That's what the market's pricing. And
so, to your question, is the rest of the
world buying US assets? They are.
They're buying credit, they're buying
equities, they're buying treasuries,
fixed income, because they are seeing
that the US is still growing the best.
>> Are you going long duration? Is this a
time to buy even at a time where
potentially there is inflationary
pressure coming down the pike?
>> So, we are long duration. We've looked
for any opportunity. We've been in this
375 4 and a half fair value in our mind.
That's the soft landing fair value.
There's an asymmetry though. If things
slow down, we have a lot of policy
shocks that that have hit the economy.
If things slow down, we can absolutely
rally more. But if we stay in the soft
landing, by rally more, I mean lower
rates, but if we stay in the soft
landing, 430 on tens is cheap. You're
near the upper end of the range. So,
absolutely, we've been buying some
duration. Are we max long? No. Um, you
know, there's to your point that the
Treasury interest rates are driven by
this fear of inflation, fear of growth.
There's a there are shades of
stagflation in the data right now. I
don't think Chapa is going to commit to
a rate cut. I think he's going to just
signal the easing bias. So, we might
hang around here, but what happens if
this I think the labor market's on edge
and if things actually slow down as
companies say we can't absorb all of
this in margins, we're going to have to
cut cost. That's a fear. That's what
keeps me up at night. And at that point,
duration is your only friend.
>> Do you think there's scope for
disappointment on Friday?
>> I think we get a lot on Friday. So, um,
there's I always think of the economic
outlook and the reaction function. If
you're looking for Chair Powell to
signal imminent rate cuts or a doubbish
reaction function, I don't think we're
going to get that. Um, I think it's
going to depend on so where the
disappointment might come in is well, he
didn't commit to September. He still
left the door open because we have
another payroll report revisions. Now I
think the market might make pay more
attention to revisions along with that
number. Something that's frustrated me
for years that you get both sets of data
and the market always looks at the
headline. Maybe we'll we'll look at
both. You have another CPI report. So I
don't I think where the disappointment
will come in is no commitment, but I'm
going to be watching that framework
review. That's going to sound maybe a
little bit hawkish. They're going to
talk about symmetry to the unemployment
rate, symmetry to inflation. That might
sound
the economic outlook. How nervous is he
that consumer spending has PDF the
private domestic final sales that number
is slowing without the rise that much
rise in inflation. So why is the
consumer pulling back if companies are
not passing on cost? Means there's some
under maybe some underlying slowing
here. Pisra of JP Morgan. Based on what
you've said, I imagine that speech is
going to be a lot longer than 8 minutes
just based on those comments from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
up next.
>> It's been messy for the cyclical side of
the market.
>> You don't want to have a scenario where
tech and tech capex slows down.
>> The market's back where it was or
heading at least in the direction of
where it was last year. You can take a
look at where risk is priced right now
and I think reasonably conclude it's a
relatively rich
>> the market figured out and kind of
agreed with me that the economy was
resilient and we're not going to have a
a recession.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern.
>> It is a no drama Tuesday so far at least
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now with equities just off
all-time highs pulling back by not even
a tenth of 1% on the S&P. Similar move
on the NASDAQ. Had Home Depot report
earnings a little bit early this
morning. I'll use that frame again
phrase again. No drama from them. Then
onto tomorrow we're going to hear from
Target. The day after we'll hear from
Walmart and then the man himself on
Friday. Chairman Pal just a few days
away.
>> It sets up the preamble perfectly to
understand the dual mandate of both
employment. the idea of how much the
labor market continues to be firm versus
inflation and the retail earnings are
going to be really key with that. Home
Depot coming out and saying that they
didn't have to pass along the prices
quite that much over the past couple of
months. Partly because 50% of their
items are sourced from the United
States, but also they imported a lot of
goods ahead of the tariff uh ahead of
the tariffs getting implemented going
forward. Not so simple. And to me, that
is one of the key questions. How much is
this delayed the inflationary impact of
some of these levies? The most important
thing I think we're going to have
discussed in the next 60 minutes or so
with Jim Karen of Morgan Stanley is
about what happens in the next few
months and not just obsessing over
downside risk but considering the
prospect of upside risk, the potential
for a reaceleration in the US economy. I
think that's really really important
because what you just heard from Home
Depot was important. What they said to
you was that you could see activity
delayed and not derailed. Which also
means in the next few months you could
see things pick up once again.
>> If you get certainty of tariffs, if you
get certainty of policy, and this is
ultimately the key question, are we
discounting uh some of the weakness
without considering what will happen
down the pike? The idea of people
putting off big ticket items uh doesn't
mean that they're never going to do
them. It means that they are waiting for
more certainty. One rate cut could
actually ignite that. The idea that
they're going to pass along price
increases down the line also highlights
the idea that they think that investors
are going to be able to accept them.
This from Goldman Sachs, I thought this
was fascinating, an analysis that came
out. They estimate that companies are
paying 64% of the tariffs currently, but
that that ratio will drop to 8% by
October. Consumers currently paying
about 22%. They expect that to go up to
67% of the tariff costs coming by
October. It just shows this is coming
down the pike. The question is, will
consumers be strong enough to absorb
that and then how much does that shift
market expectations?
>> Equities this morning negative by not
even a tenth of 1% on the S&P. Coming up
this hour, Jim Karen of Morgan Stanley
as markets I Fed Chair J Pal and Jackson
Hull, Chuck Grum of Gordon Hasker in a
busy week of retail earnings and Gene
Soka of the Port of Los Angeles as they
brace for the impact of new tariffs. We
begin this hour with stock steady as
investors await to sign on rate cuts.
Jim Karen and Morgan Stanley saying the
following. I expect Pal to acknowledge
downside risk in the economy but not
signal a rate cut is 100%. Jim joins us
now for more. Jim, welcome to the
program, sir. It's a lesson you taught
me a long, long time ago to consider
that risk cuts both ways. Can we talk
about upside risk? What is the potential
for that upside risk materializing in
the months to come?
>> Thank you, John, and and thanks for
having me on the show. Um, look, I I
think there's a lot going on here and
what we have to recognize is that a lot
of things are in flux at this moment.
So, we're we're transitioning our
economy from a dependence on the
government sector in terms of job
creation to now shifting towards the
private sector. We're in that very
uncomfortable in between period where
you're going to see weakness in the
labor report. These are the numbers that
are likely to come up. I think it's
early September, September 9th. We have
another quarterly um uh census of
employment and wages, which is the
downward revisions that we're expected
to get in in previous month payrolls. Um
all of this is in front of the next Fed
meeting, which I do think that the Fed
is going to cut 25 basis points. But
when we look forward, when we look into
the future, what that means is that the
labor supply had been taken up by the
public sector, meaning by the government
sector. The majority of job growth that
we've seen over the past few years has
come from the government sector. Now
that's going to shift over to the
private sector as we go into late this
year 2026. Now what the demand is going
to be I think likely is going to come
from the you know the the tax and budget
program that was passed by the Trump
administration. A lot of the capex
investment that we're seeing, a lot of
the FDI that's coming in from foreign
countries, there's going to be a large
surge of that investment coming into the
US, which means that private sector jobs
are actually going to start to lead the
growth. Private sector jobs over the
past few years have been relatively flat
to going down. Public sector jobs,
government sector jobs have been
actually going up and that's what's been
keeping things buoyant. Now we're going
to see a shift in this mix and I think
that is going to be the leading
indicator for there to be a broadening
out of of markets and that could be a
positive element going forward.
>> Jim, just build on that. How do you want
to position for that transition in the
US economy?
>> So really it's a it's it's in terms of
positioning in in portfolios, it's
really a broadening of the equity
markets. So what we've seen right now
are the capex leaders. These are the mag
seven. These are the big tech companies
that we all know. they have all the
money so they can they can do the early
investment and that's what's really been
propping up and boosting up the economy
and and a lot of the data what what we
think can happen going forward with the
tax plan and all the capex and all the
investment that's coming through that
the labor supply that's going to be
available to the midcap sectors and to
the broader say the other 493 across the
across the S&P 500 is going to be labor
at a reasonable price. I like that
phrase, labor at a reasonable price,
which means that wage inflation doesn't
necessarily have to pick up, which is
good news for the Fed because they don't
have to worry about extended inflation,
but you can still have a growing
economy. So, I think the broader, more
cyclical sectors, manufacturing,
industrials, all of those sectors can
actually stand to gain going forward.
and that, you know, tech leadership will
still be there, but I I think that that
leadership uh mantle is going to be
shared amongst a broader cohort.
>> How much is that sort of broadening out
predicated on the idea of an ongoing
slew of rate cuts that start as soon as
next month?
>> I'd say that rate cuts are helpful. I I
don't know that it's overly predicated
on it. Uh rate cuts help valuations for
sure. I mean, it's uh you know, it's
certainly not a headwind. Um but I think
it's mostly predicated on on the
accelerated depreciation, the capex
plans that have yet to be started.
Right? Remember this, you know, this
bill was passed in early third quarter.
The tax bill was passed in early third
quarter. Businesses are yet to actually
really start to in the broad sense in in
the more broader sense of the market are
really yet to actually start to make
this investment and actually start their
growth plans because now they know what
the tax plan is. There's a lot of
pent-up demand. um that's likely to come
through and that's going to help GDP
that's going to be for the broader parts
of the market to actually generate some
of that growth. Look, this is a risk to
the upside and John knows I like to say
this um that the risk to the upside is
still a risk and it needs to be hedged.
That's my tagline, right? We have to
look at risks as symmetrical. There's
both upside and downside. So, when we
look at asset prices today, I don't
think the market's necessarily
overvalued in an equity sense. I just
think the market is taking into account
that there is potential for there to up
you know for there to be upside and it's
balancing itself right around here and
there is downside risk too. Well, okay.
So, a lot of people have pointed to a
lot of the aspects that you just talked
about and say a lot has been priced in.
You look at the 493 at something like 22
times earnings uh just in terms of
valuation. Even when you strip out the
magnificent 7 and you wonder, okay, is
that still not accounting for some of
the efficiencies that you're talking
about, whether it's AI, whether it's
just the idea of uh the investment
that's coming from the tax bill that was
passed. How do you decide what's already
been priced in and what potentially has
yet to be factored?
>> Lisa, that's a fantastic question. All
right, so let me break it down. Um, if
we go back to January 1st, 2025, start
of this year, the 12-month forward
earnings for the US were somewhere
between $300 EPS, $300 to $310,
somewhere in that neighborhood. Now,
what happened is we had tariffs. There
was a lot of turmoil in the economy.
analysts took those numbers down to 265,
280, 285, which is where they stand
right now. What if we get back to EPS
expectations back to where we were at
the start of this year around $300,
$310,
and you brought up the 22p multiple.
Let's say that multiple stays exactly
where it is. So now you've got 22 times
$310.
You're looking at an S&P that could get
to 7,000. I'm not making that forecast.
All I'm saying is that when you draw the
distribution of probabilities that's in
there within a first standard deviation
move. So it's it's possible that you can
get there and that's the upside
potential in terms of valuing the
markets. Jim, just before you go, I just
want to wrap it up. Sort of get 35,000
ft and think about where we are at the
moment and where we have been over the
last decade plus. Bull markets in this
country for a long long time post GFC
have been absolutely despised. They've
been hated and it feels like to some
extent this is no different. I hear a
lot of people pouring freezing cold
water on this market. Whether it's
narrow breath concentration, there's
always a reason to hate this stock
market rally. Jim, when you speak to
clients at the moment, do you hear any
exuberance whatsoever? When you hear
things like bubbles, are you seeing any
of that in your career? Lean on some of
your experience. Any signs of that at
all?
>> I'm not seeing that. I I I'm seeing a
lot of skepticism to the upside. Um, and
you know, as I also like to say, the
markets keep disappointing to the
upside, right? Because it means that
people aren't fully positioned to where
they want to be. The downside risks are
very clear and they're very evident. We
know what can happen. We can have a
sharp decline in the jobs market. Tariff
pressures could start to bite, margins
start to uh compress, and you could have
a significant slowdown. We know those
risks exist. Um, and and and I
acknowledge those risks as well. And I
think most people fixate on that
primarily because it's it's it's tariff
driven. But what people aren't seeing is
the benefits, the cost reducers. Tariffs
increase costs. The cost reducers are
the deregulation and also the reduction
in in in tax costs. When you net those
two things together, there could be a
positive outcome, but it's hard to solve
for and it's not readily apparent. So
that's why I don't think you see a lot
of that exuberance to the upside at the
moment.
>> Jim, appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Jim
Karen there of Morgan Stanley.
Disappointment to the upside. It's what
it's felt like for a long, long time for
a lot of people not riding this rally.
>> When you look at the 13F filings, you
see that hedge funds and other
institutions have been chronically
underweight Nvidia as they look to other
places to outperform. And you can just
imagine that that has been a uh chronic
disappointment as well.
>> Stocks very close to alltime highs on
the S&P 500. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahira. Hey, Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. We start with our top story.
President Trump is pushing for a
one-on-one summit between Ukraine's
President Zilinski and Russia's
President Vladimir Putin to discuss
terms that could bring an end to the
war. Trump urged Putin to consider the
plans after European leaders joined
Zalinski at the White House yesterday.
The summit would be followed by a
trilateral gathering involving President
Trump. Meanwhile, Nvidia shares are
edging higher by 210 of 1% as the
company is reportedly developing a new
AI chip being called the B30A. According
to Reuters, the chip would specifically
be for China and would be more powerful
than the H20 model. The B30A is likely
to deliver half the raw computing power
of Nvidia's flagship B300 AI chip, which
is part of its Blackwell architecture.
And Starbucks will give 2% raises to
corporate employees this year, moving
away from merit-based increases as the
coffee giant looks to reign in cost. The
pay bump will go to North American
corporate staff, retail managers, and US
manufacturing workers later this year.
Starbucks is in the middle of a major
turnaround after six straight quarters
of falling sales. That shouldn't brief.
John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning calls plus Chuck Grum of Gordon
Hask with a busy slate of retail
earnings well underway. That
conversation up next, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
There's two sort of distinct markets out
there today, right? There's the new
construction market where the home
builders have the ability to buy the
rates down and they've done that very
successfully. 90% of sales historically
have been on the existing home side
where we do need we do need rates to
come down and that sort of turnover in
the existing home market is critical to
the to the long-term success of the
market. That was John Love of UBS on
housing market in the United States. A
housing market that he's still pretty
constructive on. If you're just joining
us, welcome to the program. Equities at
the moment on the S&P, lighter, soft,
and negative, down by not even a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500. It's been a quiet
few days so far this trading week.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, City
raising its price target on 5 below to
143, expecting comparable sales to drive
a second quarter earnings beat. Your
second call from Bank of America cutting
its price target on GAP to 21, saying
tariff pressures will weigh on margins.
And finally, Piper Sandler raising its
price target on Dollar Tree to 112,
citing improved fundamentals and trade
down benefits. Let's stick with retail
investors looking for signs of inflation
in big box earnings ahead of comments
from Fed chair J. Pal and Jackson Hole.
Mike McKe is in Jackson Hole and he
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Michael. Let's just talk about what
we've learned so far, what you see in
the data and what you're hearing from
corporate America.
>> Well, I think the uh important thing
today of course, John, is uh housing
starts which have not been good because
builders have been holding back to wait
and see what happens with interest rates
as we just heard. And the question is J.
Paul going to give us any kind of
indication about when interest rates
might come down. Uh the betting is among
analysts that he won't that he'll keep
his options open because there is more
data to come. Now the interesting thing
about all of this is of course that if
the Fed were to lower rates but the
markets were to think that perhaps the
fiscal policies we have now were going
to cause inflation. It wouldn't bring
mortgage rates down. It would probably
raise the long end and mortgage rates
would stay where they are or go up.
>> Mike, this is an important point. Just
how much pentup activity is there in
this economy waiting for lower interest
rates? whether it's the front end or the
long end.
>> Well, there's a lot of pent up uh it's
not just demand, it's a desire to sell
as well. A lot of baby boomers, the kids
are gone, the house is too big, they
want to sell, but they don't want to get
out of their mortgage. So, there's a
feeling that if mortgage rates come down
maybe into the fives, you'll start to
see some action out there. But that's
going to take a while. So, it isn't
going to be housing that's going to
drive things soon. And you saw today
with Home Depot earnings that it's
affecting the broader economy because
people aren't buying the things that go
into houses as well.
>> Mckis, some data dropping in about 12
minutes time. We'll cross over to you in
just a moment. Stay close. Mike
mentioned Home Depot. Let's stick with
the consumer and Home Depot given a
warning as consumers pull back from big
ticket items. Chuck Gro covers Home
Depot for Gordon Hask rating at 380
price target. Chuck joins us now for
more. Chuck, just first of all, what's
the big takeaway so far this morning for
you and the team?
>> Uh, you know, to be honest with you,
it's kind of a non-event. Uh, 1% comp
pretty much in line with with
expectations. EPS was in line backing
guidance, and it's really more of the
same out of out of these home
improvement retailers. Really just
continue to bounce along the bottom. As
some of your prior guests have said, we
really need housing turnover to really
trigger uh demand. And right now, we're
not seeing that. So, business is okay.
and and right now we're waiting for that
inflection and we're just not seeing it
yet.
>> Chuck, do a couple of rate cuts get it
done or do we need to see more than just
that?
>> Uh, you know, the survey work that we do
shows that if you get mortgage rates
below 6%, you start to see an
improvement in demand. You really kind
of need into that mid 5% level given
where rates are and where people are
sitting on their current mortgage rates.
So, probably need more than just a
couple.
>> How much does Home Depot stand in a
better position than the others just
simply because so much of their
inventory comes from the United States?
Yeah, that's a great point. And with
prices moving higher over the the next
couple of quarters, I mean, Home Depots,
the two big box guys are in great shape
relative to some of their some of their
peers. Um, but like I said earlier, we
really need to see rates move lower.
That's the big thing. Big ticket just
continues to be weak. We think on their
call at 9:00, we hear about certain
seasonal categories doing a little bit
better as we progress throughout the
quarter. We think the exit rate in July
was probably better than the entry rate
in May. That'll give people some hope as
we move into the back half, but their
guide in our view still looks a little
bit of aggre aggressive. If you look at
the two-year stacks, what they need to
do to hit that 1%, they need really need
a big improvement. We're talking like
three 400 basis points of of a comp
improvement for them to hit that guide.
And and right now that looks a a little
bit um aggressive.
>> Chuck, we were just talking to Jim Karen
about the potential to the upside, the
risk to the upside of potential
reaceleration. And one thing that you
keep saying is we need rates to go lower
to uh restart some of that demand. What
we heard from Home Depot was a lot of
people putting on hold some of these
plans. If the Fed does cut rates
substantially, just how much could that
reacelerate the business and give them
the ability to raise prices as they plan
to do with the uh marginal increase in
tariffs?
>> Yeah, I mean it it could be a multi-year
tailwind. And if you look at the the
valuation of of Home Depot in
particular, trading at roughly 25 26
times Ford earnings, which is roughly a
three or four turn premium to historical
levels, the market's kind of
anticipating that. I mean, these stocks
are flat on the year and their comps
have really gone nowhere for several
quarters in a row. So, the market's
certainly anticipating that. And and if
you look at home home improvement spend
um as a percentage of total PCE, it it
it's gotten back to sort of 2019 levels.
So there's no doubt about it. The home
improvement vertical is probably the
best that I cover. Um and I and when I
think over the next 10 years, there
could be a a tremendous amount of demand
that gets unlocked.
>> That's one segment of the companies that
you do cover, Chuck, when you look
across all the companies you cover at
the moment. Are there any potential
landmines? I often ask you this question
that some of these companies might have
stepped on given the amount of policy
change we've seen in the past few months
and anticipation of that policy change
as well.
Yeah, I think the the the one it's a
good question. If you look at the big
beautiful bill and and some of the
pending changes to to you know tax rates
and and where things are going to fall
out early next year, there's a little
bit of concern at the low end when we
start to see Medicaid cuts and SNAP
reductions. So that's I don't know if
it's a a landmine today. Uh I do think
you are seeing some trade down effect or
trade in. Um but I do think the low end
is something we're lowended income we're
going to need to see. Um keep an eye on
that as we move into the beginning of
next year. Chuck, we've heard from a lot
of companies that they're absorbing the
tariffs, that they're cutting some of
the margins, uh, in order to remain
competitive, especially for that low-end
consumer. At what point have you started
hearing or have you already started
hearing about layoffs or trimming
employer uh, employees on the margins to
compensate for that? We were just
talking about Starbucks and the fact
that they're only increasing wages by
2%. I mean, that's below inflation in
order to restrain costs. How much does
that sort of start to bleed over into
the labor picture?
>> That's a good question. I mean, right
now, I mean, that the the price checks
that we've done, it would tell you that
we haven't really seen a big increase in
pricing. We're talking like up like 2
and 1/2 3 and 1/2% relative to in, you
know, B in early April when we started
to do these checks and when tariff
increases started to come into effect, I
I would I think if you were to sort of
guess the overunder and what people
thought you'd see by August, people
would have would have taken the over
relative to that. So it doesn't really
seem see seem like we've seen those
price increases yet. Now every company
we talked to is telling us mid August
into into September into October is when
we're going to start to see that. The
second derivative of that could we start
to see job you know cuts and layoffs?
Certainly. I think wage rates in general
have been relatively benign over the
past couple of years. Remember what we
saw in the earlier part of this decade.
Big changes to labor rates. It looks
like that's starting to level out right
now.
>> What are you looking for on on Thursday
when we get Walmart results? That's
going to be kind of a lynchpin moment
considering that they're the biggest
private employer, but they also are
really head-to-head with when it comes
to Amazon and when it comes to uh
shipping, when it comes to technology,
when it comes to warehouses. What are
you looking for?
>> I I think Walmart is in a market share
gaining mode right now, I think. And
that I think that's the approach they
need to take. It's really the Costco
approach. Um I think they're going to
stay aggressive on keeping prices low. I
think they want to gain customers. And
if that comes at the expense of margins
in the near term, they're willing to to
to make that sacrifice. Um, and I think
right now that's what we're going to be
focused on. I also think they had a
really good second quarter. I think they
are gaining market share. Our checks
would say that early part to back to
school, back to college has been really
good. The US consumer is healthy. Um,
very healthy. And I think it the outlook
is what I think where where Walmart
probably poses a little bit of uh
prudence just given where prices are
going and and the uncertainty that's
still out there.
>> Hey Chuck, good to hear from you. Chuck
Rom there at Gordon Hask. Very very
different conversation with Chuck there
who covers these retailers compared to
say an economist following payrolls a
few Fridays back. If there is this
incredible weakness, where is it? If you
look at the retailers that are coming
out showing how, yeah, they're choosing
not to pass along the price increases in
order to gain market share, not
necessarily because they're uh their
their sales are going to fall off a
cliff. Again, this points to the
strength that's on the other side, the
upside risk that Jim Karen was talking
about.
>> Great conversation to kick off retail
earnings. More retail earnings come
tomorrow, Target, and then on to
Walmart. The big focus for Lisa and for
all of us here at Bloomberg
Surveillance. Up next on the program,
we'll get some breaking economic data on
housing. Plus, Rob Sen of City expecting
payback for goods frontloaded ahead of
tariffs. That conversation just around
the corner with equities close to
all-time highs. Futures negative by not
even a tenth of 1%, bond yields lower by
a single basis point across the board.
Twos at 375, 10's at 432. From New York,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities on the S&P 500 totally
unchanged. Likewise on the NASDAQ, we're
down by close to a tenth of 1% here.
Just a little bit softer. Going into
some economic data just moments away and
an opening battle about 60 minutes away.
In the bond market, 2-year, 10-year,
30-year bond yield shaping up as
follows. We're down about a single basis
point across the curve on a 2-year down
to 375 on 10 at 432. 30s yesterday
creeping closer and closer to 5% this
morning, 491 93 and down a single basis
point with some economic data. Housing
starts, building starts, building
permits, housing starts just crossing
the Bloomberg terminal. Let's get to
that data right now with Mike McKe. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. An upside surprise
for housing builders started uh new
homes at a 5.2% annual rate increase,
which is uh much more than the negative
1.8% that was forecast. It puts us at a
1,428,000
annual rate. That's up from 1,321,000.
So builders perhaps getting a little
more confident in the idea that the Fed
might cut rates and people might come
back out again to buy houses. Uh
building permits were down though 2.8%.
So it's a kind of a mixed picture. Uh
they had some confidence in July, but
what's it going to be like as we go into
the fall?
>> Mike McKe, I just wonder how sensitive
the Federal Reserve is to this one data
point, not housing starts or building
permits, but the housing sector, this
industry. Mike, we've been having this
conversation repeatedly on this program
recently about what the Federal Reserve
would do if they started cutting, but
interest rates started to go higher at
the long end of the curve. Mark
Summerland, a man who you know, of
course, a Fed share candidate, came on
the program in the last week or so and
suggested that if he saw that, they
should stop cutting, stop almost
immediately. Mike, how sensitive are
they to a repeat of what we saw last
year in Q4?
>> Oh, they're very sensitive to that.
They're going to be keeping a very close
eye on it because remember they think
that it's a very close call as to
whether you should even cut rates at
this point because of the possibility of
inflation. So they're going to be
watching what the market reaction is
because whatever the Fed does won't get
into the markets, won't get into the
financial system for six to months to a
year. Uh whereas the the market re
especially at the long run will be
immediate. So they're going to be
watching that very closely.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Mike, looking
forward to conversation later on this
morning. Mickey Bowman. Mike McKe
sitting down together 10:00 a.m. Eastern
time from Jackson Hole, Wyoming. One of
the key dissents in the last month or so
on the FOMC. Looking forward to see what
Governor Bowman's got to say about some
of these issues.
>> Yeah. And how it's going to be messaged
in Jackson Hole given that they're doing
the framework review, whether it's
relevant given the fact that uh Jay
Powell might not be the chair come next
year. He will not be the chair next
year. I do wonder about the housing
market and how much that is an
indication of weakness given that it's
been completely divorced from the
economic cycle for a number of years
now. And we see that again today. What
can we infer from this? Not a whole lot.
People are trying to navigate this
around the edges, but ultimately it
counts on whether rates go down and how
much that can ignite some of the demand.
>> Yeah. Which rates go down. And that's
the important piece of it. We've both
been talking about it and you've been on
top of it too. This has become a really
really key political issue in this
country first and foremost in this city
in New York and will be in months to
come. And there seems to be some
confusion between the relationship at
the front end of the curve and the long
end of the curve. The pressure that
you're seeing on the Federal Reserve to
cut interest rates is for a whole bunch
of reasons, but one of them there is a
belief from politicians at least that
that can help unlock some activity in
the housing market and maybe make
housing more affordable if you believe
that housing should be more affordable
based on a monthly payment and not on
the price of the house. More on that
later. Anyway, that's the issue this
Federal Reserve has now got. They could
cut rates and mortgage rates could go
up. We saw that last year. Could it
happen again?
>> Right. We saw 100 basis points of rate
cuts in the front end. We saw 100 uh
basis points of an increase essentially
on the 10-year yield. So in the opposite
direction, a real concern here about
whether there is inflationary pressure
and if there is if they cut rates too
quickly that could unleash steepening,
not necessarily the flattening or just
some sort of allound curve coming down
as many people would like to see.
>> The pandemic screwed up this housing
market in this country. this housing
market reset to interest rates of Fed
funds of zero, a mortgage rate of three,
and here we are now and it just doesn't
sync up. Something's got to give.
Something's got to give. I don't know
what, but something's got to give.
>> I apologize in advance. I'm pulling out
my little soap box and I'm getting on
it. So many people come on and they say,
"When I was a kid, I could go out and
buy a house and it wasn't that big of a
deal. I remember when it was $300,000
and you know, guess what? Mortgage rates
were at 10%." Well, yeah, they could
still buy a house with mortgage rates at
10% because they cost so much less than
what they do now. So, it's been years
and years and years in the making of
inflated pricing and now all of a sudden
you've got a generation that can't get
in. And a real question, how do you deal
with it? Sure, housing supply is going
up marginally, but is it in the right
areas? Is it the right type of homes? If
we hear about Toll Brothers being uh,
you know, going ahead with these
monstrous houses for wealthy
individuals, it doesn't really work for
the entry level. I'm coming off myself.
>> No, I'm I'm right there with you on top
of the soap box doing the same thing.
Don't worry about it. I've heard those
guests talk about those things. I know
it drives me insane.
>> It's like it's been a very different
landscape,
>> different generation. Certainly nothing
easy about the 70s into the 80s. Not
playing that down. If any boomers are
watching, I'm sure you are. I understand
that. But it's a very different
situation, which is why you see these
younger cohorts voting the way they are.
>> I don't know if it's the right way to be
voting. I think you know what my view is
on that personally. It's another
conversation for another day. But
ultimately, that's the way they're
looking to vote. They're going further
to the left.
>> Yeah. because ultimately if they don't
have access to home ownership then they
start to getting concerned about the
cost of rent which is also going up and
it's the reason why a lot of cities are
really grappling with this.
>> Rob Sawkins got lots to say about this.
Don't worry Rob, not coming at you on
that. He joins us from city. He's got
this to say. Recent labor market data
increase the scope for a Fed cut as soon
as September. We expect that the Fed
will look through elevated inflation in
the coming months and favor the growth
side of its mandate. Rob joins us now
for more. Rob, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Less on housing and less on the politics
in a moment. much more on this Federal
Reserve going into September. What do
you expect to hear this coming Friday? I
think Chair Pal's in a tough spot going
into Friday because uh we got a long way
to go until we have that that September
meeting you referenced. Um and a lot of
data in between now and then. On top of
that, he has the political pressure on
the back of his neck he's been dealing
with with some time. Uh so he can't lean
one way or another uh in my view uh in
this speech. So, it's going to be a lot
of here's what's happening with the
labor side of things. There are a lot of
factors going on. Here's what's
happening with the inflation side of
things. Fairly muted so far, but we
expect more to come. We have to wait and
see. Um, and so he's not going to lean
too strongly one way or another.
Ultimately, I do think that we're going
to see more softness in the second half
on activity, a bit more inflationary
pressure, and that's going to lead to
those cuts that I was referencing. Uh,
but I think it's too soon for him to
lean too strongly into that.
>> So, you think it's going to be a
snoozer? Is that what you're saying?
>> I think a bit of it. I mean, I think
there's going to be interesting issues
in the speech. Uh, as I said, there are
a lot of interesting things going on in
this economy. Labor market's a good
example. Uh, we've had a lot weaker
labor reports recently. Uh, but we're
also getting a contraction in labor
supply. At the same time, we're getting
a slow down labor demand. Where the
break even rate is for the labor market
and what holds the unemployment rate
constant, not clear at this moment. So,
I think those issues will be outlined.
If the focus is on growth, which has
been the focus for the Fed, the feeling
that if there is a recession, the
negative effects longer term of a loss
of employment is so pernicious that you
want to avoid that at all costs, even if
it comes with higher inflation. Does
that mean that they are biased to allow
inflation to be perpetually above 2% and
I say perpetually, but at least over the
next few years? Is that essentially a
Fed that is willing to accept 2 to 3%
inflation, not just 2% inflation?
>> Yeah. And I think this is the this is
the challenge with always with targeting
2% inflation is I think in this
environment or in any environment I
think they wouldn't explicitly say it
this way but I if inflation goes down to
let's say something like two and a
quarter um I think they'd be just fine
with that. I think once you're getting
to numbers that are closer to the high
twos into the threes and even higher
than that that's where the discomfort
starts. So it's really a soft target
around those numbers. Um and in our own
forecast, inflation, core inflation
rises to about 3%, maybe even a little
above uh by the end of the year. I think
those numbers are too high, but um they
still favor the growth side of the
mandate. And if they think that the
inflation will subside over a few
quarter period, they're willing to put,
you know, a few rate cuts through. So,
it's a balancing act. If inflation goes
much higher than we're forecasting,
which I don't expect, then I think rate
cuts are less likely. So, it's really
about where is inflation heading? Um,
and how willing are they to look through
that to support the growth side?
>> They've been looking through it now for
years. They've missed their target for
four years.
>> Yep.
>> Inflation is close to 3%. It is in the
high twos. I I don't sense any
discomfort whatsoever. Do you?
>> Yeah. You know, it's it's a great point.
I think there, you know, they
>> I hate to be snarky about it. Like,
forgive me, but seriously, the chairman
doesn't come out and sound just
uncomfortable with where inflation is at
all. Well, they started some rate cuts
last year and I think they paused it
because uh they felt that the there were
risks to inflation and inflation was
grinding down slowly, but I do agree
with the progress they've been seeing,
they don't sound particularly worked up
about it. And if without the tariffs and
those effects, if inflation were to
continue to moderate in the way it was,
I think we would still be getting
gradual rate cuts. Um but, uh it's this
potential tariff effect which could lead
to a reaceleration. That's what has them
I think worried in the back of their
mind.
>> Do you think Bradley worried?
>> I think again, you know, so far the
tariffs have been less disruptive than
we would have thought. Uh companies seem
to be absorbing these tariffs to a
higher degree than we would have
expected. Uh but I think that argument
has its limits. I think companies are
running through inventory that they
built up trying to avoid putting through
those tariff increases. And I think a
when we speak with a lot of companies,
they've been waiting to see where the
tariff rates are going to land. Um, I
think with where they seem to be landing
now, which is an effective tariff rate
on US imports somewhere close to 20%.
Um, I think that's too much for them to
absorb in their margins and you're going
to see more price increases for the
consumer as we head into the fall. So, I
do think there is cause for concern um
even though we haven't seen that those
real inflationary effects to the same
degree that the Fed and many of us have
been expecting. So there's the inflation
side and there's a labor market side of
things and people are wondering just how
much weakness was implied by some of the
non-farm payrolls reports that we've
gotten and the revisions that really
point to a much greater degree of
weakness. Other people saying this is
just the natural rate of things given
the supply side of things, the fact that
immigrants aren't uh coming to the
United States as much as they were in
the past. How much do you expect to hear
some insight there why they see this
market as in transformation and sort of
difficult to interpret?
>> Yeah, absolutely. This is the exact
issue we were talking about earlier
where you're getting the the slowdown in
labor supply and demand. So where those
meet, you should naturally expect
payrolls growth to be lower than we've
seen for the last few years. I do think
that the size of the revisions that we
saw and the pace we've seen over the
last few months is below most estimates
of that. Um now the labor market data
are noisy as we've seen um as the
administration has also highlighted. Um,
and we saw some of this last year where
things were slowing down and then the
labor market uh picked back up. So, I
think they're going to highlight that
there are risks there. Um, that the the
revisions and the extent of payrolls is
worrying. Uh, but it's a complex picture
and they're waiting to see how things
evolve. I mean, there are other labor
market data that are much less
concerning than that. If you look at the
uh weekly layoff data that we get, still
really no signs of a of a of a sharp
slowdown in those figures.
>> Rob Sin, good to see you, sir. as
always. Appreciate it. Robert Sen of
City. This from Steve Chevron of
Federated. He writes in and says, "Add
me to the soap box, too." It's very
generational this stuff, isn't it?
>> Well, we're so sick of hearing people
come out and say, "You haven't seen
anything. I remember when rates were
this level and it was just fine and I
still bought a house and you think for a
bag of peanuts."
>> Exactly. For $10,000, you know, in some
prime location. I will just add to the
soap box this aspect.
>> You start talking about the labor market
and how maybe it's better than expected.
Kevin Gordon puts this out on uh X and I
think it's a really compelling one. The
unemployment rate for 16 to 24 year olds
is up to 10%. That is the highest it has
ever been outside of a recession and
speaks to the sort of generational
divide and a question of where the
opportunities really lie. At the same
time, that housing market costs very
much are front and center.
>> It's a fantastic point. Get rolled up in
this hour, don't we?
>> I think so. I mean, if there's nothing
else going on, then we pull out our soap
boxes. We get get on them and pitch
>> forks. 1980s. Let me get you an update
on stories elsewhere with your blue
brief. Here's Yahira. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. President Trump widened steel
and aluminum tariffs to include more
than 400 consumer items. US importers
were given little notice ahead of the
change which which went into effect
Monday and included items in transit.
The levies will apply to a wide range of
items including auto parts, plastics,
baby booster seats, and furniture
components. Meanwhile, Intel shares are
rising 6% in the pre-market after
SoftBank agreed to buy $2 billion of the
chipmaker stock. The news coming as the
US government looks to take a stake in
the company, sources telling us here at
Bloomberg. The Trump administration
could take a 10% stake in Intel using
funds from the Chips Act. And too bad
Anarie isn't here for this one. Chinese
toy maker PopMart reported robust
revenue and profit growth boosted by
global demand for its Laboo dolls. You
can see them there. The pointyeared
sharp tooth monsters popularity has been
fueled by blind box packaging pushing
repeated purchases. The CEO saying he
expects foreign sales to likely outpace
the domestic Chinese market this year.
That's Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Amarie taking a well earned day
off. What are you googling? You're
having a little look at something,
aren't you? You're looking at the price
of them.
>> What you checking?
>> Nothing.
>> Go on.
>> Fake Lavu dolls.
>> How much?
>> Known as lufus. are serious choking
hazards.
So don't get a l fufu if you want for
your kids. I knew you're up to
something.
>> Why did you want me to tell everybody?
>> I could see that you were you looked
entertained.
>> Don't buy a lufu.
>> There you go. Up next on the program, we
set you up the day ahead, plus an
important conversation with Gene Soka of
the Port of Los Angeles as shippers race
to beat tariff deadlines. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
the long and getting unanchored um sell
America or the deficit that's like very
April. You look at the South America
trade, we're not seeing evidence that
foreign investors have stayed away. I
think markets across the board are
pricing in a soft landing and what
Governor Gwaler called good news rate
cuts.
>> So, April is the biggest bond market d
I've heard over the last month. Premier
JP Morgan a little bit earlier on this
morning.
>> But it's so true and it just highlights
just how much uh the narratives have
been shifting. Get over yourself. That
is so April.
>> So, April. Equities right now down about
a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. Bond
yields down about a single basis point
across the curve. With your morning
movers, let's cross over to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. One of the best performers in
the S&P pre-market is Palo Alto
reporting earnings yesterday. It was a
better 2026 than expected. They have a
whole suite of cyber security offerings.
That big platform seeming to do well
with customers. So those shares up 1.1
6.6% rather. Perhaps one of the surprise
gainers of the day is Home Depot when
they reported earnings with a miss on
comparable store same store sales and a
less purchasing of big ticket items.
Initially they sank now up 1.7%. It
would seem a lot of the commentary
coming out of the sellside community
include including DA Davidson saying
that it was in line and the trend is
positive. Therefore all in all a solid
earnings report not perhaps a solid
earnings report was biking. This is the
high-end luxury cruise operator. They
had bookings that were solid. They had
half of 2026 booked out too, but still
shares down 3.8%. The problem, according
to Strategist, was that they're only
able to raise ticket prices 4% for this
year. That is a slower growth than last
year. The concern now is, are they
losing pricing power? John
>> Danny, thank you. I don't do cruises,
but if I did,
>> I knew you were going to say this. I
know. Going through the fjords
>> like that river cruise.
>> I know. It looks pretty awesome.
>> That looks pretty awesome, doesn't
either Croatia or the fjords of Norway
and there a couple of those sort of
partial to the FJs.
>> Yeah, I I think that look very pretty.
>> Yeah, they're beautiful weather.
>> TK always wanted to make that team
cruise happen.
>> Yeah. Do you think that you want to be
on a boat with people who want to talk
to you?
>> No,
>> probably not.
>> And then stuck there and not be able to
leave.
>> Yeah, I think you struggle with that
actually. I think that sounds like your
dream.
>> Not that I should joke about this kind
of thing, but like man overboard, do you
know like
>> swim into the And if you did that in a
river, you'd like you'd make it right.
You'd get to shore probably. I don't
suggest doing that.
>> This is going to a really dark place.
>> Let's turn to trade.
>> Jump overboard.
>> The port of Los Angeles seeing the best
month for cargo volume in its history in
July. The port's executive director Gene
Soka saying traders frontloading cargo
ahead of tariffs caused the spike. Gan
joins us now for more. Gan, welcome to
the program, sir. There was a quote from
you in the last few weeks that we were
talking about around this table. It's
been a roller coaster ride all year long
and the ride's not over yet. Jean, just
take a moment just to describe what the
last few months, in fact, what this year
so far has been like for you and the
team.
>> Good morning, John and Lisa. It has been
a roller coaster. Interestingly enough,
when hard tariff policy comes out, cargo
plummets. When those policies are
softened and deadlines extend, cargo
picks up. Just like we saw in the back
half of June and for that record month
of July, folks just trying to get the
import side of the business and cargo in
under the wire of these changing
deadlines.
>> Gene, what are the backlogs like now?
How much longer does it take to process
this with all these different tariffs
from all these different countries
changing from day to day?
>> Well, this is what we're most proud of,
John. And we've been talking about this
for months now, but we weren't caught
off guard. Thanks to the port optimizer
that we've developed with the Wabtech
Corporation, we can see cargo 40 days
before it arrives in Los Angeles. And we
did just that last month, processing 107
ships, 30% more than the 5-year average,
with not one backup on water or land.
The cargo moving through the terminals
at 3 days out by truck is a preandemic
low. Gene, this comes after all of the
disruptions and some of the lessons
learned. I am wondering what you are
seeing in terms of the composition of
imports to the United States and whether
that has shifted. Yes, there are these
pockets of big surges and then declines
on the heels of tariff policies. But has
there been any consistency say about
shipments from China or shipments from
India that really come to your mind?
>> Lisa, you're right. We did learn a lot.
We're working closer together than ever.
We're using technology to help us
wherever we can. What we have seen is
cargo emanating from China really
dropping. Back in 2018, it was 60% of
our portfolio. Today, it's 45% and
continuing to decline. An uptick from
Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand.
Not so much from India. And with the 50%
tariffs that were slapped on that
country, I don't see much change there
yet. But definitely a shift to Southeast
Asia and more liner services of the
non-stop variety being put in to keep
that speed component in place for us
here in Los Angeles.
>> How quickly do you see some of the
importers shifting their orders on the
heels of different policy prescriptions
from the White House? I mean, can you
just give us a sense of how much in real
time all of these companies are adapting
and adjusting, to use our friends Tom
Keen's phrase, to what's coming out of
Washington and taking those
opportunities to pounce when there's an
opening, right, Lisa? That they're
showing so much resilience on the import
side of the business, but it's not
transactional. It takes a retailer about
3 months to put an order in and get the
products ready to ship. In the auto
sector, the tiered suppliers are at
about a month and a half. But when those
windows have opened, we've seen orders
finalized, even backlogs of inventory on
the Asia side scooped up and brought
over. This is the fastest pace we've
seen in that changing trade policy and
the reaction from the import shipping
community that I can recall.
>> So, Jean, have you seen any slowdown? I
believe that you have something like a
three weeks, four weeks maybe view on
the kind of traffic that's going to come
through, the kind of volume that's going
to come through over the next three,
four months. Gene, how are you thinking
about that now? Do you see any slowdown
in the pipeline whatsoever?
>> I do, John. And I think history will
show that we peaked in the month of
July, which is a little bit early
considering year-end holidays and the
traditional seasonal products that come
through. But August looks pretty good
right now between 900 and 950,000
container units. Yet that would be about
a 7 to 10% drop compared to our previous
month. And we'll probably see 3 weeks
out from now a real dip in cargo down
about 20% because folks have brought in
just about all the inventory they can
off those open orders and for
pre-positioning inventory they would the
way they want to look at the end of Q3
and Q4. Gene, just before you go, just
one final question. You've been
following the conversation on this
program. I know you have because you
follow the conversations on here. I just
wonder if there's something people are
missing at the moment. You're in a
unique seat. Do you think people are
missing something just in the trade
story at the moment? And if so, what is
it?
Well, I think it's been recounted a
number of times that the big box
retailers, home improvement stores,
those that had the capability brought a
lot of inventory in since last
summertime when this talk began on the
campaign trail. Going through that level
of inventory has not yielded the pass
through to consumers that some have
seen, but it'll come. It's the small to
middlesiz folks that I'm really
concerned with right now. dipping into
their savings to pay these elevated
prices, get the cargo cleared at ports
like Los Angeles, paying up to 55% tax
on those goods like product coming from
China. So, it's the small to middlesiz
firms that make up a lot of employment
across this comp country that we've got
to watch real closely over the next
weeks and months.
>> Jean, you're one of the best. Thanks for
making time for us. We appreciate it.
Jean Soka there of the Port of Los
Angeles. Final point, a really important
one
>> and it's the one that really has people
looking to future CPI and PPI prints to
understand exactly what the inflationary
ramifications will be from tariffs.
>> Conversation continues tomorrow. Target
up next. Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth
will join us. David Se of Neora will
catch up with Alicia Lavine of BNY
Wealth and Seashar of Principal Asset
Management live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]